=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Body::Delayed - body of a Mail::Message but not read yet.

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Body::Delayed realizes a Mail::Message::Body

 Mail::Message::Body::Delayed
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 See Mail::Message::Body

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Message bodies of this type will be replaced by another type the moment you
access the content.  In this documentation you will find the description of
how a message body gets delay loaded.

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<"">

=over 4

(stringification) Returns the body as string --which will trigger
completion-- unless called to produce a string for C<Carp>.  The latter
to avoid deep recursions.

example: stringification of delayed body

 print $msg->body;   # implicit by print

 my $body = $msg->body;
 my $x    = "$body"; # explicit by interpolation

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

When a body object is used as being an array reference, the lines of
the body are returned.  This is the same as using the C<lines> method.

=back

overload: B<bool>

=over 4

Always returns a true value, which is needed to have overloaded
objects to be used as in C<if($body)>.  Otherwise, C<if(defined $body)>
would be needed to avoid a runtime error.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Message::Body::Delayed-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option --Defined in     --Default
 log      Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 message                   <required>
 trace    Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'

. log => LEVEL

. message => MESSAGE

=over 4

The MESSAGE object which contains this delayed body.

=back

. trace => LEVEL

=back

=head2 The body

$obj-E<gt>B<message>

=over 4

=back

=head2 About to the payload

$obj-E<gt>B<guessSize>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<fileLocation>([BEGIN, END])

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<load>

=over 4

Returns the loaded version of this body.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveLocation>(DISTANCE)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(PARSER, HEAD, BODYTYPE)

=over 4

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::Body::Delayed-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Body::Delayed-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Body::Delayed-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

