=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Body::File - body of a message temporarily stored in a file

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Body::File
   is a Mail::Message::Body
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 See Mail::Message::Body

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The body (content) of a message can be stored in various ways.  In this
documentation you find the description of extra functionality you have
when a message is stored in a file.

Storing a whole message is a file is useful when the body is large.  Although
access through a file is slower, it is saving a lot of memory.

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<'==' and '!='>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<bool>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"OVERLOADED">

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<clone>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Message::Body::File-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option           --Defined in     --Default
 based_on           Mail::Message::Body  undef
 charset            Mail::Message::Body  'PERL' or <undef>
 checked            Mail::Message::Body  <false>
 data               Mail::Message::Body  undef
 description        Mail::Message::Body  undef
 disposition        Mail::Message::Body  undef
 eol                Mail::Message::Body  'NATIVE'
 file               Mail::Message::Body  undef
 log                Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 message            Mail::Message::Body  undef
 mime_type          Mail::Message::Body  'text/plain'
 modified           Mail::Message::Body  <false>
 trace              Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 transfer_encoding  Mail::Message::Body  'none'

. based_on => BODY

. charset => CHARSET|'PERL'

. checked => BOOLEAN

. data => ARRAY-OF-LINES | STRING

. description => STRING|FIELD

. disposition => STRING|FIELD

. eol => 'CR'|'LF'|'CRLF'|'NATIVE'

. file => FILENAME|FILEHANDLE|IOHANDLE

. log => LEVEL

. message => MESSAGE

. mime_type => STRING|FIELD|MIME

. modified => BOOLEAN

. trace => LEVEL

. transfer_encoding => STRING|FIELD

=back

=head2 Constructing a body

$obj-E<gt>B<attach>(MESSAGES, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Construct/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<check>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<concatenate>(COMPONENTS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Construct/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decoded>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encoded>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<eol>(['CR'|'LF'|'CRLF'|'NATIVE'])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<foreachLine>(CODE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Construct/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<stripSignature>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Construct/"Constructing a body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unify>(BODY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"Constructing a body">

=back

=head2 The body

$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isNested>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<message>([MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"The body">

=back

=head2 About the payload

$obj-E<gt>B<charset>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<checked>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<description>([STRING|FIELD])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<disposition>([STRING|FIELD])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<dispositionFilename>([DIRECTORY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isBinary>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isText>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mimeType>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<transferEncoding>([STRING|FIELD])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>([STRING|FIELD])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"About the payload">

=back

=head2 Access to the payload

$obj-E<gt>B<endsOnNewline>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<file>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<printEscapedFrom>(FILEHANDLE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<stripTrailingNewline>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<addTransferEncHandler>(NAME, CLASS|OBJECT)

Mail::Message::Body::File-E<gt>B<addTransferEncHandler>(NAME, CLASS|OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<contentInfoFrom>(HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<contentInfoTo>(HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fileLocation>([BEGIN,END])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<getTransferEncHandler>(TYPE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body::Encode/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<load>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveLocation>([DISTANCE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(PARSER, HEAD, BODYTYPE [,CHARS [,LINES]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<tempFilename>([FILENAME])

=over 4

Returns the name of the temporary file which is used to store this body.

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Body/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::Body::File-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Body::File-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Body::File-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

The temporary file is automatically removed when the body is
not required anymore.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Cannot write to temporary body file $filename: $!

=over 4

The message body is to be stored in a temporary file (probably because it is a
large body), but for the indicated reason, this file cannot be created.

=back

Warning: Charset $name is not known

=over 4

The encoding or decoding of a message body encounters a character set which
is not understood by Perl's Encode module.

=back

Warning: No decoder defined for transfer encoding $name.

=over 4

The data (message body) is encoded in a way which is not currently understood,
therefore no decoding (or recoding) can take place.

=back

Warning: No encoder defined for transfer encoding $name.

=over 4

The data (message body) has been decoded, but the required encoding is
unknown.  The decoded data is returned.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: Unable to read file $filename for message body file: $!

=over 4

A L<Mail::Message::Body::File|Mail::Message::Body::File> object is to be created from a named file, but
it is impossible to read that file to retrieve the lines within.  Therefore,
no copy to a temporary file can be made.

=back

Warning: Unknown line terminator $eol ignored

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

