=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup - A group of Mail::Message::Field::Address objects

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup
   is a User::Identity::Collection::Emails
   is a User::Identity::Collection
   is a User::Identity::Item

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $g = Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup->new(name => 'name');

 my $a = Mail::Message::Field::Address->new(...);
 $g->addAddress($a);
 
 my $f = Mail::Message::Field::Addresses->new;
 $f->addGroup($g);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

An address group collects a set of e-mail addresses (in this case they
are L<Mail::Message::Field::Address|Mail::Message::Field::Address> objects).

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<stringification>

=over 4

Returns the L<string()|Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup/"METHODS"> value.

=back

=head1 METHODS

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

Returns the address group as string.  When no name is specified, it will
only be a comma separated list of addresses.  With a name, the groups
name will be prepended and a semi-colon appended.  When no addresses
where included and there is no name, then C<undef> is returned.

=back

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<coerce>(OBJECT)

=over 4

Coerce an OBJECT into a L<Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup|Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup>.  Currently,
you can only coerce L<User::Identity::Collection::Emails|User::Identity::Collection::Emails> (which is
the base class for this one) into this one.

=back

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<new>([NAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection::Emails/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 Attributes

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<itemType>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>([NEWNAME])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<roles>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Collections

$obj-E<gt>B<add>(COLLECTION, ROLE)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addCollection>(OBJECT | ([TYPE], OPTIONS))

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<collection>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parent>([PARENT])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<removeCollection>(OBJECT|NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<user>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

=head2 Maintaining roles

$obj-E<gt>B<addRole>(ROLE| ( [NAME],OPTIONS ) | ARRAY-OF-OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<removeRole>(ROLE|NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<renameRole>(ROLE|OLDNAME, NEWNAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sorted>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

=head2 Searching

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(NAME|CODE|undef)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Searching">

=back

=head2 Addresses

$obj-E<gt>B<addAddress>(STRING|ADDRESS|OPTIONS)

=over 4

Add one e-mail address to the list which is maintained in the group. This
is a wrapper around L<addRole()|User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles"> adding flexibility on how addresses
are specified.  An ADDRESS can be anything which is acceptable for
L<Mail::Message::Field::Address::coerce()|Mail::Message::Field::Address/"Constructors"> or a list of options which
will create such an object.

example: of adding an address to an address group

 my @data = (full_name => "Myself", address => 'me@tux.org');
 $group->addAddress(@data);

 my $addr = Mail::Message::Field::Address->new(@data);
 $group->addAddress(@data);

 my $ma = Mail::Address->new(...);
 $group->addAddress($ma);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addresses>

=over 4

Returns all addresses defined in this group.  The addresses will be
ordered alphabetically to make automated testing possible: roles are
stored in a hash, so have an unpredictable order by default.

example: getting all addresses from a group

 my @addrs = $group->addresses;
 my @addrs = map { $_->address } $self->roles; #same

=back

=head2 Error handling

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: $object is not a collection.

=over 4

The first argument is an object, but not of a class which extends
L<User::Identity::Collection|User::Identity::Collection>.

=back

Error: Cannot coerce a $type into a Mail::Message::Field::AddrGroup

=over 4

=back

Error: Cannot create a $type to add this to my collection.

=over 4

Some options are specified to create a $type object, which is native to
this collection.  However, for some reason this failed.

=back

Error: Cannot load collection module for $type ($class).

=over 4

Either the specified $type does not exist, or that module named $class returns
compilation errors.  If the type as specified in the warning is not
the name of a package, you specified a nickname which was not defined.
Maybe you forgot the 'require' the package which defines the nickname.

=back

Error: Cannot rename $name into $newname: already exists

=over 4

=back

Error: Cannot rename $name into $newname: doesn't exist

=over 4

=back

Error: Creation of a collection via $class failed.

=over 4

The $class did compile, but it was not possible to create an object
of that class using the options you specified.

=back

Error: Don't know what type of collection you want to add.

=over 4

If you add a collection, it must either by a collection object or a
list of options which can be used to create a collection object.  In
the latter case, the type of collection must be specified.

=back

Warning: No collection $name

=over 4

The collection with $name does not exist and can not be created.

=back

Error: Wrong type of role for $collection: requires a $expect but got a $type

=over 4

Each $collection groups sets of roles of one specific type ($expect).  You
cannot add objects of a different $type.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

