=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Field::URIs - message header field with uris

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Field::URIs
   is a Mail::Message::Field::Structured
   is a Mail::Message::Field::Full
   is a Mail::Message::Field
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $f = Mail::Message::Field->new('List-Post' => 'http://x.org/');

 my $g = Mail::Message::Field->new('List-Post');
 $g->addURI('http://x.org');

 my $uri = URI->new(...);
 $g->addURI($uri);

 my @uris = $g->URIs;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

More recent RFCs prefer uri field notation over the various differentiated
syntaxes.  Especially the mailing-list RFCs use these fields all the
time.  This class can maintain these fields.

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<+0>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<<=>>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<bool>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<cmp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<stringification>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"OVERLOADED">

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<clone>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<from>(FIELD, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<new>(DATA)

=over 4

 Option    --Defined in     --Default
 attributes  Mail::Message::Field::Structured  <ignored>
 charset     Mail::Message::Field::Full  undef
 datum       Mail::Message::Field::Structured  undef
 encoding    Mail::Message::Field::Full  'q'
 force       Mail::Message::Field::Full  false
 language    Mail::Message::Field::Full  undef
 log         Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trace       Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'

. attributes => ATTRS

. charset => STRING

. datum => STRING

. encoding => 'q'|'Q'|'b'|'B'

. force => BOOLEAN

. language => STRING

. log => LEVEL

. trace => LEVEL

example: 

 my $mmfu = 'Mail::Message::Field::URIs;
 my $f = $mmfu->new('List-Post' => 'mailto:x@y.com');
 my $f = $mmfu->new('List-Post' => '<mailto:x@y.com>');
 my $f = $mmfu->new('List-Post: <mailto:x@y.com>');
 my $f = $mmfu->new('List-Post' => [ $uri, 'http://x.org' ]);

=back

=head2 The field

$obj-E<gt>B<isStructured>

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<isStructured>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"The field">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<length>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"The field">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"The field">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"The field">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"The field">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>([WRAP])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"The field">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toDisclose>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"The field">

=back

=head2 Access to the name

$obj-E<gt>B<Name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the name">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the name">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<wellformedName>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the name">

=back

=head2 Access to the body

$obj-E<gt>B<body>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decodedBody>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Access to the body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folded>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<foldedBody>([BODY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<stripCFWS>([STRING])

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<stripCFWS>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unfoldedBody>([BODY, [WRAP]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the body">

=back

=head2 Access to the content

$obj-E<gt>B<URIs>

=over 4

Returns a list with all URIs defined by the field.  Mind the lower-case
's' at the enc of the name.

example: 

 my @uris = $field->URIs;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addAttribute>(...)

=over 4

Attributes are not supported for URI fields.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addURI>(URI)

=over 4

Add an URI to the field.  The URI can be specified as URI object
or as string which will be turned into an URI object.  The added
URI is returned.

example: adding an URI to an URI field

 my $f   = Mail::Message::Field::URI->new('List-Post');

 my $uri = URI->new("http://x.org");
 $f->addURI($uri);

 $f->addURI("http://y.org");  # simpler
 $f->addURI("//y.org", "http");

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addresses>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<attribute>(OBJECT|(STRING, OPTIONS)|(NAME,VALUE,OPTIONS))

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Structured/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<attributes>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Structured/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<beautify>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<comment>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<createComment>(STRING, OPTIONS)

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<createComment>(STRING, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<createPhrase>(STRING, OPTIONS)

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<createPhrase>(STRING, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<study>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toDate>([TIME])

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<toDate>([TIME])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the content">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toInt>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Access to the content">

=back

=head2 Other methods

$obj-E<gt>B<dateToTimestamp>(STRING)

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<dateToTimestamp>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Other methods">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<consume>(LINE | (NAME,BODY|OBJECTS))

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decode>(STRING, OPTIONS)

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<decode>(STRING, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultWrapLength>([LENGTH])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(STRING, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fold>(NAME, BODY, [MAXCHARS])

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<fold>(NAME, BODY, [MAXCHARS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<setWrapLength>([LENGTH])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<stringifyData>(STRING|ARRAY|OBJECTS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unfold>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Parsing

$obj-E<gt>B<consumeComment>(STRING)

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<consumeComment>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Parsing">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<consumeDotAtom>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Parsing">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<consumePhrase>(STRING)

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<consumePhrase>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Parsing">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<datum>([VALUE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Structured/"Parsing">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parse>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Parsing">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<produceBody>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Field::Full/"Parsing">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Field::URIs-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Warning: Field content is not numerical: $content

=over 4

The numeric value of a field is requested (for instance the C<Lines> or
C<Content-Length> fields should be numerical), however the data contains
weird characters.

=back

Warning: Illegal character in charset '$charset'

=over 4

The field is created with an utf8 string which only contains data from the
specified character set.  However, that character set can never be a valid
name because it contains characters which are not permitted.

=back

Warning: Illegal character in field name $name

=over 4

A new field is being created which does contain characters not permitted
by the RFCs.  Using this field in messages may break other e-mail clients
or transfer agents, and therefore mutulate or extinguish your message.

=back

Warning: Illegal character in language '$lang'

=over 4

The field is created with data which is specified to be in a certain language,
however, the name of the language cannot be valid: it contains characters
which are not permitted by the RFCs.

=back

Warning: Illegal encoding '$encoding', used 'q'

=over 4

The RFCs only permit base64 (C<b > or C<B >) or quoted-printable
(C<q> or C<Q>) encoding.  Other than these four options are illegal.

=back

Error: No attributes for URI fields.

=over 4

Is is not possible to add attributes to URI fields: it is not permitted
by the RFCs.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

