=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock - lock a folder with a separate file

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock
   is a Mail::Box::Locker
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 See Mail::Box::Locker

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<::DotLock> object lock the folder by creating a file with the
same name as the folder, extended by C<.lock>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Name of the file to lock.  By default, the folder's name is extended
with C<.lock>.

 Option      --Defined in     --Default
 dotlock_file                   undef
 expires       Mail::Box::Locker  1 hour
 file          Mail::Box::Locker  <folderfile>.lock
 folder        Mail::Box::Locker  <undef>
 log           Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 method        Mail::Box::Locker  'DOTLOCK'
 timeout       Mail::Box::Locker  10 seconds
 trace         Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'

. dotlock_file => <undef>

=over 4

Alternative name for C<file>, especially useful to confusion when
the multi locker is used.

=back

. expires => SECONDS

. file => FILENAME

. folder => FOLDER

. log => LEVEL

. method => STRING|CLASS|ARRAY

. timeout => SECONDS|'NOTIMEOUT'

. trace => LEVEL

=back

=head2 The Locker

$obj-E<gt>B<filename>([FILENAME])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"The Locker">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folder>([FOLDER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"The Locker">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"The Locker">

=back

=head2 Locking

$obj-E<gt>B<hasLock>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"Locking">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isLocked>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"Locking">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lock>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unlock>

=over 4

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Locker/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Warning: Couldn't remove lockfile $lock: $!

=over 4

=back

Error: Failed to remove expired lockfile $lockfile: $!

=over 4

=back

Warning: Folder already locked with file $lockfile

=over 4

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Warning: Removed expired lockfile $lockfile

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

