=pod

=head3
1.08 August 2009

=over

=item *

Updated Clair::SynthCollection to generate synthetic documents based on (1 to 4)-grams.

=item *

Modified extract N-grams to optionally use CMU-LM.

=item *

Updated make_synth_collection.pl to fully utilize Clair::SyntheticCollection.

=item *

Fixed some Tokenizer issues.

=item *

Added summarize_document.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added summarize_collection to the utilities.

=item *

Added learn.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added classify.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added extract_features.pl

=item *

Added bigrams_to_rand_doc.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added make_synth_collection_Menczer.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added Clair::RandomWalk for random walk on graphs.

=item *

Added Clair::Harmonic for computing harmonic functions based on the Relaxation and Montecarlo methods

=item *

Added random_walk.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added harmonic.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added directory_to_URL_network.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Fixed a bug in the crawling code.

=item *

Added new tutorials.

=item *

Added new sections to the documentation.

=item *

Added Clair::Bio::GIN for gene interaction extraction.

=item *

Added an interface to Stanford parser in Clair::Utils::Parse

=item *

Added tag_genes.pl to the utilities.

=item *

Added extract_interactions.pl to the utilities.

=back

=head3
1.07 June 2009

=over

=item *

Added Clair::Network::Spectral for spectral partitioning using Fiedler Vector.

=item *

Made Clairlib independent of MEAD (MEAD is no more required for Clairlib).

=item *

Added Naive Bayes learning and classification.

=item *

Added tests for feature extraction, learning, classification.

=item *

Fixed a bug in Clair::Cluster::create_lexical_network().

=item *

Added sampling options to Clair::Cluster.

=item *

Added "No IDF" option and sampling capabilities to corpus_to_cos.pl utility.

=item *

Fixed documentation typos.

=item *

Added new tutorials to the documentation.

=item *

Fixed bug in Clair::Utils::CorpusDownload.

=item *

Added 'manual weights' option to make_synth_collection util.

=item *

Fixed bug in extract_ngrams.

=back

=head3
1.06 March 2009

=over

=item *

Added Clair:Network:FordFulkerson

=item *

Added change_perl_path.pl  to the utilities.

=item *

Added new scripts to interface ACL Anthology Network.

=item *

Fixed a bug in split_into_sentences() of Clair::Document
                                                        
=back

=head3
1.05 July 2008

=over

=item *

Fixed formatting bugs in CorpusDownload.pm

=item *

Added get_predecessor_matrix() function in Network.pm

=item *

Added get_shortest_path() function in Network.pm

=item *

Added  erase_corpus.pl script

=item *
added erase_isolated_nodes.pl script

=item *
added --ignore-isolated-nodes in convert_network.pl

=item *
added several options to print_network_stats.pl: a. --self-loop,

=item *
completed the descriptions of print_network_stats.pl: added the
note of --force into usage.

=item *

added sentence_to_docs.pl , lines_to_docs.pl under util folder

=back

=head3
1.04B June 2008

=over

=item *

Added -no-duplicated-edges in convert_network.pl

=item *
Added largest connected component in cos_to_stats.pl

=item *
Added full avergage shortest path in print_network.pl

=item *

fixed divide by zero error in Network.pm, Betweeness.pm

=back

=head3
1.04A April 2008

=over

=item *

Added Clair::Network::GirvanNewman algorithm to do hierarchical clustering

=item *

Added Clair::Network::KernighanLin algorithm to do graph partition

=back

=head3
1.04 Feburary 2008

=over

=item *

Added Clair::Network::AdamicAdar to compute the adamic/adar value for a given network corpus

=item *

Added Clair::ChisqIndependent to compute p-value and degree of freedom for Chi square

=back

=head3
1.03 August 2007

=over

=item *
Added functionality to perform community finding within weighted, undirected networks

=item *
Added util/chunk\_document.pl to break documents into smaller files by word number

=item *
Added option to retain punctuation for idf and tf queries

=item *
Added option to print out full lists of idf and tf values for a corpus

=item *
LexRank moved from Clair::Network to Clair::Network::Centrality::LexRank

=item *
LexRank use now follows the same use pattern as the other centrality modules

=back

=head3 1.02 July 2007

=over

=item *
Distribution reorganized in standard format

=item *
Improved and expanded installation documentation (INSTALL)

=item *
Improved POD (inline) documentation

=item *
Additional examples

=item *
Updated PDF documentation

=back

=head3
1.01 May 2007

=over

=item *
Added Phrase-based Retrieval and Fuzzy OR Queries

=item *
Extended Clairlib-ext with interfaces for the Cluster class and the Document class to the Weka machine learning toolkit

=item *
Added LSI functionality

=item *
Extended parsing of strings / files into Documents

=item *
Added perceptron learning and classification for documents

=back

=head3
1.0 RC1 April 2007

=over

=item *
Moved all Clair modules beneath the Clair::* namespace, updated documentation

=item *
Improved Network Analysis, added Clustering Coefficients code

=item *
Added Network Generation and Statistics modules

=back

=head3
0.955 March 2007

=over

=item *
Made it possible to distribute clairlib in two distributions, one containing core code and another containing code that may be dependent on other resources

=item *
Cleaned up unit tests

=back

=head3
0.953 February 2007

=over

=item *
Fixed bugs in Clair::Cluster, Clair::Document involving stemming

=item *
Cleaned up t/ and test/ directories

=item *
Created util/ directory

=item *
Added scripts to util/ directory to:

=over

=item *
Run a Google query and save the returned URLs to a file

=item *
Download files from a URL and build a corpus

=item *
Segment a document into sentences and build a corpus of the sentences

=item *
Take all documents in a directory and create a corpus

=item *
Index the corpus (compute TF*IDF, etc.)

=item *
Compute cosine similarity measures between all documents in a corpus

=item *
Generate networks corresponding to various cosine thresholds

=item *
Print network statistics about a network file

=item *
Generate plots of degree distribution and cosine transitions

=back

=item *
New methods in Clair::Network:

    print_network_info
    get_network_info_as_string
    get_cumulative_distribution
    cumulative_power_law_exponent
    find_components
    newman_clustering_coefficient
    linear_regression

=back

=cut