=head1 NAME

Mail::Transport::Mailx - transmit messages using external mailx program

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Transport::Mailx
   is a Mail::Transport::Send
   is a Mail::Transport
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $sender = Mail::Transport::Mailx->new(...);
 $sender->send($message);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Implements mail transport using the external programs C<'mailx'>,
C<Mail>, or C<'mail'>.  When instantiated, the mailer will look for
any of these binaries in specific system directories, and the first
program found is taken.

B<WARNING: There are many security issues with mail and mailx. DO NOT USE
these commands to send messages which contains data derived from any
external source!!!>

Under Linux, freebsd, and bsdos the C<mail>, C<Mail>, and C<mailx> names are
just links to the same binary.  The implementation is very primitive, pre-MIME
standard,  what may cause many headers to be lost.  For these platforms (and
probably for other platforms as well), you can better not use this transport
mechanism.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Transport::Mailx-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option    --Defined in     --Default
 executable  Mail::Transport  undef
 hostname    Mail::Transport  'localhost'
 interval    Mail::Transport  30
 log         Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 password    Mail::Transport  undef
 port        Mail::Transport  undef
 proxy       Mail::Transport  undef
 retry       Mail::Transport  <false>
 style                        <autodetect>
 timeout     Mail::Transport  120
 trace       Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 username    Mail::Transport  undef
 via         Mail::Transport  'mailx'

. executable => FILENAME

. hostname => HOSTNAME|ARRAY-OF-HOSTNAMES

. interval => SECONDS

. log => LEVEL

. password => STRING

. port => INTEGER

. proxy => PATH

. retry => NUMBER|undef

. style => 'BSD'|'RFC822'

=over 4

There are two version of the C<mail> program.  The newest accepts
RFC822 messages, and automagically collect information about where
the message is to be send to.  The BSD style mail command predates
MIME, and expects lines which start with a C<'~'> (tilde) to specify
destinations and such.  This field is autodetect, however on some
platforms both versions of C<mail> can live (like various Linux
distributions).

=back

. timeout => SECONDS

. trace => LEVEL

. username => STRING

. via => CLASS|NAME

=back

=head2 Sending mail

$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>(MESSAGE, [ADDRESS|ARRAY-OF-ADDRESSES])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<putContent>(MESSAGE, FILEHANDLE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trySend>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

=back

=head2 Server connection

$obj-E<gt>B<findBinary>(NAME [, DIRECTORIES])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<remoteHost>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<retry>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Transport/"Server connection">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Transport::Mailx-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Transport::Mailx-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Transport::Mailx-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Warning: Message has no destination

=over 4

It was not possible to figure-out where the message is intended to go
to.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Warning: Resent group does not specify a destination

=over 4

The message which is sent is the result of a bounce (for instance
created with L<Mail::Message::bounce()|Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message">), and therefore starts with a
C<Received> header field.  With the C<bounce>, the new destination(s)
of the message are given, which should be included as C<Resent-To>,
C<Resent-Cc>, and C<Resent-Bcc>.

The C<To>, C<Cc>, and C<Bcc> header information is only used if no
C<Received> was found.  That seems to be the best explanation of the RFC.

As alternative, you may also specify the C<to> option to some of the senders
(for instance L<Mail::Transport::SMTP::send(to)|Mail::Transport::Send/"Sending mail"> to overrule any information
found in the message itself about the destination.

=back

Error: Sending via mailx mailer $program failed: $! ($?)

=over 4

Mailx (in some shape: there are many different implementations) did start
accepting messages, but did not succeed sending it.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

