=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64 - encode/decode base64 message bodies

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64
   is a Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => 'base64');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Encode or decode message bodies with base64.  The e-mail protocol and
user agents can not handle binary data.  Therefore, binary data -but
even sometimes non-binary data- is encoded into ASCII, this is
transportable.

Base64 re-groups the bits of bytes, and maps them on characters. The
data contains bytes of 8 bits (an I<octet>).  These are repacked into
groups of 6 bits, pointing in an array of characters containing
C<[A-Za-z0-9+/]>.  This way, three data bytes become 4 base64 bytes.
The encoded data will be trailed by C<'='> characters to align on
four bytes.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 The Encoder

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<addTransferEncoder>(TYPE, CLASS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(TYPE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

=head2 Encoding

$obj-E<gt>B<check>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option     --Defined in                --Default
 result_type  Mail::Message::TransferEnc  <type of source body>

. result_type => CLASS

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::Base64-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Warning: Base64 line length not padded on 4.

=over 4

While decoding base64 the data in a message body, a string was found which
was not padded into a multiple of four bytes.  This is illegal, and therefore
this data is ignored.

=back

Error: Decoder for transfer encoding $type does not work: $@

=over 4

Compiling the required transfer encoding resulted in errors, which means
that the decoder can not be used.

=back

Warning: No decoder for transfer encoding $type.

=over 4

A decoder for the specified type of transfer encoding is not implemented.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

