=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit - encode/decode 8bit message bodies

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit
   is a Mail::Message::TransferEnc
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my Mail::Message $msg = ...;
 my $decoded = $msg->decoded;
 my $encoded = $msg->encode(transfer => '8bit');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Encode or decode message bodies for 8bit transfer encoding.  This is
only very little encoding.  According to the specs:

RFC-2045 Section 2.8 defines legal `8bit' data:

 "8bit data" refers to data that is all represented as relatively
 short lines with 998 octets or less between CRLF line separation
 sequences [RFC-821]), but octets with decimal values greater than 127
 may be used.  As with "7bit data" CR and LF octets only occur as part
 of CRLF line separation sequences and no NULs are allowed.

As you can safely conclude: decoding of these bodies is no work
at all.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Constructors">

=back

=head2 The Encoder

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit-E<gt>B<addTransferEncoder>(TYPE, CLASS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(TYPE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"The Encoder">

=back

=head2 Encoding

$obj-E<gt>B<check>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decode>(BODY [, OPTIONS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(BODY, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::TransferEnc/"Encoding">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::TransferEnc::EightBit-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Decoder for transfer encoding $type does not work: $@

=over 4

Compiling the required transfer encoding resulted in errors, which means
that the decoder can not be used.

=back

Warning: No decoder for transfer encoding $type.

=over 4

A decoder for the specified type of transfer encoding is not implemented.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

