=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::File::Message - one message in a Mbox folder

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::File::Message
   is a Mail::Box::Message
   is a Mail::Message
   is a Mail::Reporter

 Mail::Box::File::Message is extended by
   Mail::Box::Dbx::Message
   Mail::Box::Mbox::Message

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $folder  = new Mail::Box::File folder => $ENV{MAIL}, ...;
 my $message = $folder->message(0);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Maintain one message in an file based folder, any L<Mail::Box::File|Mail::Box::File>
extension.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<clone>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Messages in file-based folders use the following options for creation:

 Option    --Defined in     --Default
 body        Mail::Message    undef
 body_type   Mail::Box::Message  <from folder>
 deleted     Mail::Message    <false>
 field_type  Mail::Message    undef
 folder      Mail::Box::Message  <required>
 from_line                    undef
 head        Mail::Message    undef
 head_type   Mail::Message    Mail::Message::Head::Complete
 labels      Mail::Message    {}
 log         Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 messageId   Mail::Message    undef
 modified    Mail::Message    <false>
 size        Mail::Box::Message  undef
 trace       Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trusted     Mail::Message    <false>

. body => OBJECT

. body_type => CODE|CLASS

. deleted => BOOLEAN

. field_type => CLASS

. folder => FOLDER

. from_line => STRING

=over 4

The line which begins each message in the file. Some people detest
this line, but this is just how things were invented...

=back

. head => OBJECT

. head_type => CLASS

. labels => ARRAY|HASH

. log => LEVEL

. messageId => STRING

. modified => BOOLEAN

. size => INTEGER

. trace => LEVEL

. trusted => BOOLEAN

=back

=head2 Constructing a message

$obj-E<gt>B<bounce>([RG-OBJECT|OPTIONS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<build>([MESSAGE|PART|BODY], CONTENT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<buildFromBody>(BODY, [HEAD], HEADERS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forward>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardAttach>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardEncapsulate>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardInline>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardNo>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPostlude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPrelude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardSubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<read>(FILEHANDLE|SCALAR|REF-SCALAR|ARRAY-OF-LINES, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Read/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rebuild>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reply>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replyPrelude>([STRING|FIELD|ADDRESS|ARRAY-OF-THINGS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

=head2 The message

$obj-E<gt>B<container>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<escapedBody>

=over 4

Mbox folders contain multiple messages in one file, using a separator
line to keep them apart.  Typically, these lines start with "From ".
Lines within the message could interfere with this separator, and should
therefore be translated.

This method will return the escaped text of the body as reference.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folder>([FOLDER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fromLine>([LINE])

=over 4

Many people detest file-style folders because they store messages all in
one file, where a line starting with C<From > leads the header.  If we
receive a message from a file-based folder, we store that line.  If we write
to such a file, but there is no such line stored, then we try to generate
one.

If LINE is provided, then the starting line is set to this value.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDummy>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isPart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>([MAILER], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<seqnr>([INTEGER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toplevel>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

Write one message to a file handle.  It is the message including the
leading 'From ' line and trailing blank.  The From-line may interfere
with lines in the body: those lines are escaped with an extra '>'.

example: 

 $msg->write(\*FILE);    # print the message with encaps to FILE
 $msg->write;            # message with encaps to selected filehandle
 $msg->print(\*FILE);    # the message without encaps.

=back

=head2 The header

$obj-E<gt>B<bcc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<date>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<from>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<get>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<guessTimestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<head>([HEAD])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sender>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<study>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subject>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<timestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<to>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

=head2 The body

$obj-E<gt>B<body>([BODY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<contentType>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decoded>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isNested>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parts>(['ALL'|'ACTIVE'|'DELETED'|'RECURSE'|FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

=head2 Flags

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<deleted>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDeleted>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<label>(LABEL|PAIRS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labelsToStatus>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<statusToLabels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

=head2 The whole message as text

$obj-E<gt>B<file>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<printStructure>([FILEHANDLE|undef],[INDENT])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<clonedFrom>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<diskDelete>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fileLocation>

=over 4

Returns the location of the whole message including the from-line.  In
LIST context, both begin and end are returned.  In SCALAR context, only
the begin is passed back.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<loadBody>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveLocation>(DISTANCE)

=over 4

The message is relocated in the file, being moved over DISTANCE bytes.
Setting a new location will update the according information in the header
and body.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readBody>(PARSER, HEAD [, BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readFromParser>(PARSER)

=over 4

Read one message from a L<Mail::Box::File|Mail::Box::File> based folder, including the
leading message separator.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readHead>(PARSER [,CLASS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<recursiveRebuildPart>(PART, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeBody>(BODY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<takeMessageId>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct/"METHODS">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

Mail::Box::File::Message-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortString>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destruct>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Cannot coerce a $class object into a $class object

=over 4

=back

Error: Cannot include forward source as $include.

=over 4

Unknown alternative for the L<forward(include)|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.  Valid choices are
C<NO>, C<INLINE>, C<ATTACH>, and C<ENCAPSULATE>.

=back

Error: Cannot include reply source as $include.

=over 4

Unknown alternative for the C<include> option of L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">.  Valid
choices are C<NO>, C<INLINE>, and C<ATTACH>.

=back

Error: Method bounce requires To, Cc, or Bcc

=over 4

The message L<bounce()|Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message"> method forwards a received message off to someone
else without modification; you must specified it's new destination.
If you have the urge not to specify any destination, you probably
are looking for L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">. When you wish to modify the content, use
L<forward()|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.

=back

Error: Method forwardAttach requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: Method forwardEncapsulate requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: No address to create forwarded to.

=over 4

If a forward message is created, a destination address must be specified.

=back

Error: No default mailer found to send message.

=over 4

The message L<send()|Mail::Message/"The message"> mechanism had not enough information to automatically
find a mail transfer agent to sent this message.  Specify a mailer
explicitly using the C<via> options.

=back

Error: No rebuild rule $name defined.

=over 4

=back

Error: Only build() Mail::Message's; they are not in a folder yet

=over 4

You may wish to construct a message to be stored in a some kind
of folder, but you need to do that in two steps.  First, create a
normal L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>, and then add it to the folder.  During this
L<Mail::Box::addMessage()|Mail::Box/"The folder"> process, the message will get L<coerce()|Mail::Message/"Internals">-d
into the right message type, adding storage information and the like.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: Unable to read delayed body.

=over 4

=back

Error: coercion starts with some object

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

