=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed - a destructed message

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Message::Destructed
   is a Mail::Box::Message
   is a Mail::Message
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $folder->message(3)->destruct;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When a message folder is read, each message will be parsed into Perl
structures.  Especially the header structure can consume a huge amount
of memory (message bodies can be moved to external temporary files).
Destructed messages have forcefully cleaned-up all header and body
information, and are therefore much smaller.  Some useful information
is still in the object.

BE WARNED: once a message is destructed, it cannot be revived.  Destructing
enforces irreversable deletion from the folder.  If you have a folder opened
for read-only, the message will stay in that folder, but otherwise it may
be deleted.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<clone>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<new>(MESSAGE-ID, OPTIONS)

=over 4

You cannot instantiate a destructed message object.  Destruction is
done by calling L<Mail::Box::Message::destruct()|Mail::Box::Message/"Cleanup">.

 Option    --Defined in     --Default
 body        Mail::Message    undef
 body_type   Mail::Box::Message  <from folder>
 deleted     Mail::Message    <false>
 field_type  Mail::Message    undef
 folder      Mail::Box::Message  <required>
 head        Mail::Message    undef
 head_type   Mail::Message    Mail::Message::Head::Complete
 labels      Mail::Message    {}
 log         Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 messageId   Mail::Message    undef
 modified    Mail::Message    <false>
 size        Mail::Box::Message  undef
 trace       Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trusted     Mail::Message    <false>

. body => OBJECT

. body_type => CODE|CLASS

. deleted => BOOLEAN

. field_type => CLASS

. folder => FOLDER

. head => OBJECT

. head_type => CLASS

. labels => ARRAY|HASH

. log => LEVEL

. messageId => STRING

. modified => BOOLEAN

. size => INTEGER

. trace => LEVEL

. trusted => BOOLEAN

=back

=head2 Constructing a message

$obj-E<gt>B<bounce>([RG-OBJECT|OPTIONS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<build>([MESSAGE|PART|BODY], CONTENT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<buildFromBody>(BODY, [HEAD], HEADERS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forward>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardAttach>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardEncapsulate>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardInline>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardNo>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPostlude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPrelude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardSubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<read>(FILEHANDLE|SCALAR|REF-SCALAR|ARRAY-OF-LINES, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Read/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rebuild>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reply>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replyPrelude>([STRING|FIELD|ADDRESS|ARRAY-OF-THINGS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

=head2 The message

$obj-E<gt>B<container>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folder>([FOLDER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDummy>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isPart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>([MAILER], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<seqnr>([INTEGER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toplevel>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

=head2 The header

$obj-E<gt>B<bcc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<date>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<from>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<get>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<guessTimestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<head>([HEAD])

=over 4

When C<undef> is specified for HEAD, no change has to take place and
the method returns silently.  In all other cases, this method will
complain that the header has been removed.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sender>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<study>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subject>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<timestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<to>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

=head2 The body

$obj-E<gt>B<body>([BODY])

=over 4

When C<undef> is specified for BODY, no change has to take place and
the method returns silently.  In all other cases, this method will
complain that the body data has been removed.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<contentType>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decoded>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isNested>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parts>(['ALL'|'ACTIVE'|'DELETED'|'RECURSE'|FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

=head2 Flags

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<deleted>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDeleted>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<label>(LABEL|PAIRS)

=over 4

It is possible to delete a destructed message, but not to undelete it.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labelsToStatus>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<statusToLabels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

=head2 The whole message as text

$obj-E<gt>B<file>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<printStructure>([FILEHANDLE|undef],[INDENT])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<clonedFrom>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

Coerce a L<Mail::Box::Message|Mail::Box::Message> into destruction.

example: of coercion to death

 Mail::Box::Message::Destructed->coerce($folder->message(1));
 $folder->message(1)->destruct;  # same

 my $msg = $folder->message(1);
 Mail::Box::Message::Destructed->coerce($msg);
 $msg->destruct;                 # same

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<diskDelete>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readBody>(PARSER, HEAD [, BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readFromParser>(PARSER, [BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readHead>(PARSER [,CLASS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<recursiveRebuildPart>(PART, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeBody>(BODY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<takeMessageId>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct/"METHODS">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

Mail::Box::Message::Destructed-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortString>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destruct>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Cannot coerce a (class) into destruction

=over 4

Only real L<Mail::Box::Message|Mail::Box::Message> objects can get destructed into
L<Mail::Box::Message::Destructed|Mail::Box::Message::Destructed> objects.  L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> free
their memory immediately when the last reference is lost.

=back

Error: Cannot include forward source as $include.

=over 4

Unknown alternative for the L<forward(include)|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.  Valid choices are
C<NO>, C<INLINE>, C<ATTACH>, and C<ENCAPSULATE>.

=back

Error: Cannot include reply source as $include.

=over 4

Unknown alternative for the C<include> option of L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">.  Valid
choices are C<NO>, C<INLINE>, and C<ATTACH>.

=back

Error: Destructed message has no labels except 'deleted'

=over 4

=back

Error: Destructed messages can not be undeleted

=over 4

Once a message is destructed, it can not be revived.  Destruction is an
optimization in memory usage: if you need an undelete functionality, then
you can not use L<Mail::Box::Message::destruct()|Mail::Box::Message/"Cleanup">.

=back

Error: Method bounce requires To, Cc, or Bcc

=over 4

The message L<bounce()|Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message"> method forwards a received message off to someone
else without modification; you must specified it's new destination.
If you have the urge not to specify any destination, you probably
are looking for L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">. When you wish to modify the content, use
L<forward()|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.

=back

Error: Method forwardAttach requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: Method forwardEncapsulate requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: No address to create forwarded to.

=over 4

If a forward message is created, a destination address must be specified.

=back

Error: No default mailer found to send message.

=over 4

The message L<send()|Mail::Message/"The message"> mechanism had not enough information to automatically
find a mail transfer agent to sent this message.  Specify a mailer
explicitly using the C<via> options.

=back

Error: No rebuild rule $name defined.

=over 4

=back

Error: Only build() Mail::Message's; they are not in a folder yet

=over 4

You may wish to construct a message to be stored in a some kind
of folder, but you need to do that in two steps.  First, create a
normal L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>, and then add it to the folder.  During this
L<Mail::Box::addMessage()|Mail::Box/"The folder"> process, the message will get L<coerce()|Mail::Box::Message::Destructed/"METHODS">-d
into the right message type, adding storage information and the like.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: You cannot instantiate a destructed message

=over 4

You cannot instantiate a destructed message object directly.  Destruction
is done by calling L<Mail::Box::Message::destruct()|Mail::Box::Message/"Cleanup"> on any existing
folder message.

=back

Error: You cannot take the head/body of a destructed message

=over 4

The message originated from a folder, but its memory has been freed-up
forcefully by means of L<Mail::Box::Message::destruct()|Mail::Box::Message/"Cleanup">.  Apparently,
your program still tries to get to the header or body data after this
destruction, which is not possible.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

