=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet - fake Mail::Internet

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet
   is a Mail::Message
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 !!! BETA !!!

 # change
 use Mail::Internet;
 # into
 use Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet;
 # in existing code, and the code should still work, but
 # with the Mail::Message features.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module is a wrapper around a L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>, which simulates
a L<Mail::Internet> object.  The name-space of that module is hijacked
and many methods are added.

Most methods will work without any change, but you may need to have
a look at your L<smtpsend()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"The body"> and L<send()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"The message"> calls.

=head1 OVERLOADED

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<clone>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Constructors">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<dup>

=over 4

Duplicate the message.  The result will again be a L<Mail::Internet>
compatible object.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<empty>

=over 4

Remove all data from this object.  Very dangerous!

=back

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<new>([ARG], [OPTIONS])

=over 4

 Option    --Defined in     --Default
 Body                         undef
 FoldLength                   79
 Header                       undef
 MailFrom                     'KEEP'
 Modify                       0
 body        Mail::Message    undef
 body_type   Mail::Message    Mail::Message::Body::Lines
 deleted     Mail::Message    <false>
 field_type  Mail::Message    undef
 head        Mail::Message    undef
 head_type   Mail::Message    Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader
 labels      Mail::Message    {}
 log         Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 messageId   Mail::Message    undef
 modified    Mail::Message    <false>
 trace       Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trusted     Mail::Message    <false>

. Body => ARRAY-OF-LINES

=over 4

Array of C<"\n"> terminated lines.  If not specified, the lines will be
read from ARG.

=back

. FoldLength => INTEGER

=over 4

Number of characters permitted on any refolded header line.
Passed to L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::new(FoldLength)|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"METHODS">.

=back

. Header => OBJECT

=over 4

The L<Mail::Header> object, which is passed here, is a fake one as well...
It is translated into a L<new(head)|Mail::Message/"Constructors">.  If not given, the header will be
parsed from the ARG.

=back

. MailFrom => 'IGNORE'|'ERROR'|'COERCE'|'KEEP'

=over 4

What to do with leading "C<From >" lines in e-mail data.
Passed to L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::new(MailFrom)|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"METHODS">.

=back

. Modify => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Whether to re-fold all the incoming fields.
Passed to L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::new(Modify)|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"METHODS">.

=back

. body => OBJECT

. body_type => CLASS

. deleted => BOOLEAN

. field_type => CLASS

. head => OBJECT

. head_type => CLASS

. labels => ARRAY|HASH

. log => LEVEL

. messageId => STRING

. modified => BOOLEAN

. trace => LEVEL

. trusted => BOOLEAN

example: replace traditional Mail::Internet by this wrapper

  # was
  use Mail::Internet;
  my $mi = Mail::Internet->new(@options);

  # becomes
  use Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet;
  my $mi = Mail::Internet->new(@options);

=back

=head2 Attributes

$obj-E<gt>B<MailFrom>([STRING])

=over 4

Your email address.

=back

=head2 Constructing a message

$obj-E<gt>B<add_signature>([FILENAME])

=over 4

Replaced by L<sign()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"Constructing a message">, but still usable. FILENAME is the file which
contains the signature, which defaults to C<$ENV{HOME}/.signature>.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<bounce>([RG-OBJECT|OPTIONS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<build>([MESSAGE|PART|BODY], CONTENT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<buildFromBody>(BODY, [HEAD], HEADERS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<extract>(ARRAY or FILEHANDLE)

=over 4

Read header and body from an ARRAY or FILEHANDLE

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forward>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardAttach>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardEncapsulate>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardInline>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardNo>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPostlude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPrelude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardSubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(ARRAY|FILEHANDLE, OPTIONS)

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<read>(ARRAY|FILEHANDLE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Read header and body from the specified ARRAY or FILEHANDLE.  When used as
object method, L<Mail::Message::read()|Mail::Message::Construct::Read/"Constructing a message"> is called, to be MailBox compliant.
As class method, the Mail::Internet compatible read is called.  OPTIONS are
only available in the first case.

 Option             --Defined in     --Default
 body_type            Mail::Message::Construct::Read  undef
 strip_status_fields  Mail::Message::Construct::Read  <true>

. body_type => CLASS

. strip_status_fields => BOOLEAN

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read_body>(ARRAY|FILEHANDLE)

=over 4

Read only the message's body from the ARRAY or FILEHANDLE.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read_header>(ARRAY|FILEHANDLE)

=over 4

Read only the message's header from the ARRAY or FILEHANDLE

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rebuild>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reply>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

BE WARNED: the main job for creating a reply is done by
L<Mail::Message::reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">, which may produce a result which is compatible,
but may be different from L<Mail::Internet>'s version.

 Option         --Defined in     --Default
 Bcc              Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  undef
 Cc               Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  <'cc' in current>
 Exclude                           []
 From             Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  <'to' in current>
 Inline                            >
 Keep                              []
 Message-ID       Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  <uniquely generated>
 ReplyAll                          <false>
 Subject          Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  replySubject()
 To               Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  <sender in current>
 body             Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  undef
 group_reply      Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  <true>
 header_template                   $ENV{HOME}/.mailhdr
 include          Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  'INLINE'
 max_signature    Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  10
 message_type     Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  Mail::Message
 postlude         Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  undef
 prelude          Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  undef
 quote            Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  '> '
 signature        Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  undef
 strip_signature  Mail::Message::Construct::Reply  qr/^--\s/

. Bcc => ADDRESSES

. Cc => ADDRESSES

. Exclude => ARRAY-OF-NAMES

=over 4

Remove the fields witht the specified names from the produced reply message.

=back

. From => ADDRESSES

. Inline => STRING

=over 4

Quotation STRING, which is translated into L<reply(quote)|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">.  The normal
default of C<quote> is "E<gt> ", in stead of "E<gt>".

=back

. Keep => ARRAY-OF-NAMES

=over 4

Copy all header fields with the specified NAMES from the source to the
reply message.

=back

. Message-ID => STRING

. ReplyAll => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Reply to the group?  Translated into L<reply(group_reply)|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">, which has
as default the exact oposite of this option, being C<true>.

=back

. Subject => STRING|CODE

. To => ADDRESSES

. body => BODY

. group_reply => BOOLEAN

. header_template => FILENAME|C<undef>

=over 4

Read the return header from the template file.  When this is explicitly
set to C<undef>, or the file does not exist, then a header will be created.

=back

. include => 'NO'|'INLINE'|'ATTACH'

. max_signature => INTEGER

. message_type => CLASS

. postlude => BODY|LINES

. prelude => BODY|LINES

. quote => CODE|STRING

. signature => BODY|MESSAGE

. strip_signature => REGEXP|STRING|CODE

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replyPrelude>([STRING|FIELD|ADDRESS|ARRAY-OF-THINGS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sign>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Add a signature (a few extra lines) to the message.

 Option   --Default
 File       undef
 Signature  ''

. File => FILENAME

=over 4

Specifies a filename where the signature is in.

=back

. Signature => STRING|ARRAY-OF-LINES

=over 4

The signature in memory.

=back

=back

=head2 The message

$obj-E<gt>B<container>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDummy>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isPart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nntppost>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Send an NNTP message (newsgroup message), which is equivalent to
Mail::Transport::NNTP or L<Mail::Message::send()|Mail::Message/"The message"> with C<via 'nntp'>.

 Option--Default
 Debug   <false>
 Host    <from Net::Config>
 Port    119

. Debug => BOOLEAN

. Host => HOSTNAME

. Port => INTEGER

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

Prints the whole message to the specified FILEHANDLE, which default to
STDOUT.  This calls L<Mail::Message::print()|Mail::Message/"The message">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>(TYPE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Send via Mail Transfer Agents (MUA).  These will be handled by various
L<Mail::Transport::Send|Mail::Transport::Send> extensions.  The C<test> TYPE is not supported.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toplevel>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

=head2 The header

$obj-E<gt>B<add>(LINES)

=over 4

Add header lines, which simply calls C<Mail::Message::Head::add()> on
the header for each specified LINE. The last added LINE is returned.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<bcc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<clean_header>

=over 4

Not to be used, replaced by L<header()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"The header">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<combine>(TAG, [WITH])

=over 4

Not implemented, because I see no use for it.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<date>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>(NAME, [INDEX]])

=over 4

Delete the fields with the specified NAME.  The deleted fields are
returned.

BE WARNED: if no NAME is specified, the C<delete> is interpreted as
the deletion of the message in a folder, so L<Mail::Box::Message::delete()|Mail::Message/"Flags">
will be called.  This may have no negative effect at all...

Calls L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::delete()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"Access to the header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fold>([LENGTH])

=over 4

Fold all the fields to a certain maximum LENGTH.
Implemented by L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::fold()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"Simulating Mail::Header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fold_length>([[TAG], LENGTH])

=over 4

Set the maximum line LENGTH.  TAG is ignored.
Implemented by L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::fold_length()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"Simulating Mail::Header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<from>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<get>(NAME, [INDEX])

=over 4

Get all the header fields with the specified NAME.  In scalar context,
only the first fitting NAME is returned.  Even when only one NAME is
specified, multiple lines may be returned: some fields appear more than
once in a header.  Calls L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::get()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"Access to the header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<guessTimestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<head>([HEAD])

=over 4

Returns the head of the message, or creates an empty one if none is
defined.  The HEAD argument, which sets the header, is not available
for L<Mail::Internet>, but is there to be compatible with the C<head>
method of L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<header>([ARRAY])

=over 4

Optionally reads a header from the ARRAY, and then returns those fields
as array-ref nicely folded.
Implemented by L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::header()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"Simulating Mail::Header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print_header>(FILEHANDLE)

=over 4

Calls L<Mail::Message::Head::Complete::print()|Mail::Message::Head::Complete/"Access to the header">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replace>(TAG, LINE, [INDEX])

=over 4

Adds LINES to the header, but removes fields with the same name if they
already exist.  Calls L<Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader::replace()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailHeader/"Access to the header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sender>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<study>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subject>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<tidy_headers>

=over 4

No effect anymore (always performed).

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<timestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<to>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

=head2 The body

$obj-E<gt>B<body>([ARRAY-OF-LINES|LIST-OF-LINES])

=over 4

Returns an array of lines, representing the body.  With arguments, a
new body will be created.  In L<Mail::Internet>, the body is not an
object but a simple array.

BE WARNED: this overrules the L<Mail::Message::body()|Mail::Message/"The body"> method, which
may cause some confusion.  Use L<bodyObject()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"The body"> to get access to that
body's data.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<bodyObject>([BODY])

=over 4

Calls L<Mail::Message::body()|Mail::Message/"The body">, because that C<body> method is overruled
by the one which has a L<Mail::Internet> compatible interface.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<contentType>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decoded>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isNested>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parts>(['ALL'|'ACTIVE'|'DELETED'|'RECURSE'|FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print_body>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

Prints the body to the specified FILEHANDLE, which defaults to STDOUT.  This
calls L<Mail::Message::Body::print()|Mail::Message::Body/"Access to the payload">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<remove_sig>([NRLINES])

=over 4

Remove the signature of a message with a maximum of NRLINES lines, which
defaults to 10.  The work is done on the decoded body content, by
L<Mail::Message::Body::stripSignature()|Mail::Message::Body::Construct/"Constructing a body">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<smtpsend>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

This method is calling L<Mail::Message::send()|Mail::Message/"The message"> via C<smtp>, which is
implemented in L<Mail::Transport::SMTP|Mail::Transport::SMTP>.  The implementation is
slightly different, so this method is not 100% compliant.

 Option  --Default
 Debug     <false>
 Hello     <helo_domain from Net::Config>
 Host      $ENV{SMTPHOSTS} or from Net::Config
 MailFrom  $ENV{MAILADDRESS} or $ENV{USER}
 Port      25

. Debug => BOOLEAN

. Hello => STRING

. Host => HOSTNAME

=over 4

Only the first detected HOSTNAME is taken, so differs from the original
implementation.

=back

. MailFrom => STRING

=over 4

Your e-mail address.  This simulated L<Mail::Internet> object does not
try to create an e-mail address from the sendmail configuration file,
because that is generally a bad idea in environments with virtual hosts,
as we have now-adays.

=back

. Port => INTEGER

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<tidy_body>

=over 4

Removes blank lines from begin and end of the body.

=back

=head2 Flags

$obj-E<gt>B<deleted>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDeleted>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<label>(LABEL|PAIRS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labelsToStatus>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<statusToLabels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

=head2 The whole message as text

$obj-E<gt>B<as_mbox_string>

=over 4

Returns the whole message as one string, which can be included in an
MBOX folder (while not using L<Mail::Box::Mbox|Mail::Box::Mbox>).  Lines in the body
which start with C<From > are escaped with an E<gt>.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<file>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<printStructure>([FILEHANDLE|undef],[INDENT])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

=head2 The nasty bits

$obj-E<gt>B<isa>(CLASS)

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<isa>(CLASS)

=over 4

Of course, the C<isa()> class inheritance check should not see our
nasty trick.

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<clonedFrom>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

Coerce (adapt type) of the specified MESSAGE (anything
L<Mail::Message::coerce()|Mail::Message/"Internals"> accepts) into an L<Mail::Internet|Mail::Internet> simulating
object.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readBody>(PARSER, HEAD [, BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readFromParser>(PARSER, [BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readHead>(PARSER [,CLASS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<recursiveRebuildPart>(PART, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeBody>(BODY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<takeMessageId>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct/"METHODS">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortString>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destruct>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Cannot include forward source as $include.

=over 4

Unknown alternative for the L<forward(include)|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.  Valid choices are
C<NO>, C<INLINE>, C<ATTACH>, and C<ENCAPSULATE>.

=back

Error: Mail::Internet does not support this kind of data

=over 4

The ARGS data can only be a file handle or an ARRAY.  Other data types
are not supported (see L<read()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"Constructing a message"> if you want to have more).

=back

Error: Method bounce requires To, Cc, or Bcc

=over 4

The message L<bounce()|Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message"> method forwards a received message off to someone
else without modification; you must specified it's new destination.
If you have the urge not to specify any destination, you probably
are looking for L<reply()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"Constructing a message">. When you wish to modify the content, use
L<forward()|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.

=back

Error: Method forwardAttach requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: Method forwardEncapsulate requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: No address to create forwarded to.

=over 4

If a forward message is created, a destination address must be specified.

=back

Error: No rebuild rule $name defined.

=over 4

=back

Error: Only build() Mail::Message's; they are not in a folder yet

=over 4

You may wish to construct a message to be stored in a some kind
of folder, but you need to do that in two steps.  First, create a
normal L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>, and then add it to the folder.  During this
L<Mail::Box::addMessage()|Mail::Box/"The folder"> process, the message will get L<coerce()|Mail::Message::Replace::MailInternet/"Internals">-d
into the right message type, adding storage information and the like.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

