=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Dbx - read Outlook Express folders

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Dbx
   is a Mail::Box::File
   is a Mail::Box
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Box::Dbx;
 my $folder = Mail::Box::Dbx->new(...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documentation describes how to read from Outlook Express (dbx)
folders.  Even on Unix/Linux, you can access these folders to
read the data, or copy it to a different format.  Modifying of
xbd files is not supported.

These dbx folders are accessed using Mail::Transport::Dbx which
is distributed via CPAN as separate package.  This C<MAil::Transport::Dbx>
module is based on the open source library named C<libpst>, which can
be found at L<http://alioth.debian.org/projects/libpst/>.  The library does
not support writing of dbx files, and therefore limits the possibilities
of this package.

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<cmp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option           --Defined in     --Default
 access             Mail::Box        always 'r'
 body_delayed_type  Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Body::Delayed
 body_type          Mail::Box::File  <see description>
 coerce_options     Mail::Box        []
 create             Mail::Box        not implemented
 extract            Mail::Box        10240
 field_type         Mail::Box        undef
 fix_headers        Mail::Box        <false>
 folder             Mail::Box        =Folders.dbx
 folderdir          Mail::Box        .
 head_delayed_type  Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Head::Delayed
 head_type          Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Head::Complete
 keep_dups          Mail::Box        <false>
 lock_extension     Mail::Box::File  '.lock'
 lock_file          Mail::Box        <foldername><lock-extension>
 lock_timeout       Mail::Box        1 hour
 lock_type          Mail::Box        'NONE'
 lock_wait          Mail::Box        10 seconds
 locker             Mail::Box        undef
 log                Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 manager            Mail::Box        undef
 message_type       Mail::Box        Mail::Box::Dbx::Message
 multipart_type     Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Body::Multipart
 remove_when_empty  Mail::Box        not implemented
 save_on_exit       Mail::Box        not implemented
 trace              Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trusted            Mail::Box        <depends on folder location>
 write_policy       Mail::Box::File  not implemented

. access => MODE

. body_delayed_type => CLASS

. body_type => CLASS|CODE

. coerce_options => ARRAY

. create => BOOLEAN

. extract => INTEGER | CODE | METHOD | 'LAZY'|'ALWAYS'

. field_type => CLASS

. fix_headers => BOOLEAN

. folder => FOLDERNAME

. folderdir => DIRECTORY

. head_delayed_type => CLASS

. head_type => CLASS

. keep_dups => BOOLEAN

. lock_extension => FILENAME|STRING

. lock_file => FILENAME

. lock_timeout => SECONDS

. lock_type => CLASS|STRING|ARRAY

. lock_wait => SECONDS

. locker => OBJECT

. log => LEVEL

. manager => MANAGER

. message_type => CLASS

. multipart_type => CLASS

. remove_when_empty => BOOLEAN

. save_on_exit => BOOLEAN

. trace => LEVEL

. trusted => BOOLEAN

. write_policy => 'REPLACE'|'INPLACE'|undef

=back

=head2 The folder

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessage>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessages>(MESSAGE [, MESSAGE, ...])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<appendMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::File/"METHODS">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<close>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<filename>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::File/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderdir>([DIRECTORY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<organization>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<update>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<url>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

=head2 Folder flags

$obj-E<gt>B<access>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writable>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

=head2 The messages

$obj-E<gt>B<current>([NUMBER|MESSAGE|MESSAGE-ID])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(MESSAGE-ID)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findFirstLabeled>(LABEL, [BOOLEAN, [ARRAY-OF-MSGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<message>(INDEX [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>(MESSAGE-ID [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageIds>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messages>(['ALL',RANGE,'ACTIVE','DELETED',LABEL,!LABEL,FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<scanForMessages>(MESSAGE, MESSAGE-IDS, TIMESPAN, WINDOW)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

=head2 Sub-folders

$obj-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

It is advised to set the C<check> flag, because dbx folder often list
large amounts of folder names which do not really exist.  However, checking
does consume some time.

 Option    --Defined in     --Default
 check       Mail::Box        <false>
 folder      Mail::Box        <from calling object>
 folderdir   Mail::Box        <from folder>
 skip_empty  Mail::Box        <false>

. check => BOOLEAN

. folder => FOLDERNAME

. folderdir => DIRECTORY

. skip_empty => BOOL

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(SUBNAME, [PARENTNAME])

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(SUBNAME, [PARENTNAME])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openRelatedFolder>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openSubFolder>(SUBNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<topFolderWithMessages>

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<topFolderWithMessages>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Creation is not supported for dbx folders.

 Option   --Defined in--Default
 folderdir  Mail::Box   undef

. folderdir => DIRECTORY

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<determineBodyType>(MESSAGE, HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderToFilename>(FOLDERNAME, FOLDERDIR)

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<folderToFilename>(FOLDERNAME, FOLDERDIR)

=over 4

Translate a folder name into a filename, using the
FOLDERDIR value to replace a leading C<=>.

=back

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<foundIn>([FOLDERNAME], [OPTIONS])

=over 4

If no FOLDERNAME is specified, then the value of the C<folder> option
is taken.  A dbx folder is a file which name ends on C<.dbx> (case
insensitive).

 Option   --Defined in     --Default
 folder                      undef
 folderdir  Mail::Box        undef

. folder => FOLDERNAME

. folderdir => DIRECTORY

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lineSeparator>([STRING|'CR'|'LF'|'CRLF'])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<locker>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageCreateOptions>([TYPE, CONFIG])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::File/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveAwaySubFolder>(DIRECTORY, EXTENSION)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::File/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parser>

=over 4

The parsing of messages is a combined job for the Mail::Transport::Dbx
module (to get the right data) and L<read()|Mail::Box/"Internals">.  Asking for the parser
will provide the transporter object.  If asked more than once, each time
the same object will be returned.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeMessage>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeThreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeUnthreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<updateMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::File/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::File/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writeMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Other methods

$obj-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Other methods">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Dbx-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head2 DETAILS

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 How DBX folders work

DBX files are create by Outlook Express.  I can not tell you too much
about it, because me (as author) never use Windows or MicroSoft tools.
Still, it is possible to access some Outlook created folders from Unix.

The folder structure for dbx starts with a single C<Folders.dbx>
file.  This folder contains names of sub-folders.  Each folder can
either contain messages, or contains sub-folders.  Combinations are
not possible.

=head2 This implementation

The ol2mbox project (see L<http://sourceforge.net/project/ol2mbox/>)
has created a C<libdbx> which can read dbx files using nearly any
operating system.  You can simply transport a dbx file from Windows
to Unix/Linux and the read all the messages from it.

Tassilo von Parseval wrote a Perl wrapper around this C-library,
and distributes it as Mail::Transport::Dbx.  Although it named in
one the MailBox namespaces, it is a separate product, because it
requires a C compiler.  Besides, the module will have its own life.

=head2 Converting DBX folders to MBOX

The title of this section is to attract your attension, but is does
not describe anything special related to DBX or MBOX: you can convert
any kind of mail folder into another with the following code.

example: converting folders

 my $from = Mail::Box::Dbx->new(folder => 'Folder.dbx')
    or exit;

 my $to   = Mail::Box::Mbox->new(folder => '/tmp/mbox',
    access => 'w', create => 1) or die;

 $from->copyTo($to);

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Cannot append messages to folder file $filename: $!

=over 4

Appending messages to a not-opened file-organized folder may fail when the
operating system does not allow write access to the file at hand.

=back

Error: Cannot move away sub-folder $dir

=over 4

=back

Error: Cannot read dbx folder file $filename.

=over 4

=back

Warning: Cannot remove folder $name file $filename: $!

=over 4

Writing an empty folder will usually cause that folder to be removed,
which fails for the indicated reason.  L<new(remove_when_empty)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">

=back

Warning: Cannot remove folder $name file $filename: $!

=over 4

Writing an empty folder will usually cause that folder to be removed,
which fails for the indicated reason.  L<new(remove_when_empty)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">
controls whether the empty folder will removed; setting it to false
(C<0>) may be needed to avoid this message.

=back

Error: Cannot replace $filename by $tempname, to update folder $name: $!

=over 4

The replace policy wrote a new folder file to update the existing, but
was unable to give the final touch: replacing the old version of the
folder file for the indicated reason.

=back

Warning: Changes not written to read-only folder $self.

=over 4

You have opened the folder read-only --which is the default set
by L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">--, made modifications, and now want to close it.
Set L<close(force)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> if you want to overrule the access mode, or close
the folder with L<close(write)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> set to C<NEVER>.

=back

Error: Copying failed for one message.

=over 4

For some reason, for instance disc full, removed by external process, or
read-protection, it is impossible to copy one of the messages.  Copying will
proceed for the other messages.

=back

Warning: Dbx folders are read-only.

=over 4

=back

Error: Destination folder $name is not writable.

=over 4

The folder where the messages are copied to is not opened with write
access (see L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">).  This has no relation with write permission
to the folder which is controled by your operating system.

=back

Warning: Different messages with id $msgid

=over 4

The message id is discovered more than once within the same folder, but the
content of the message seems to be different.  This should not be possible:
each message must be unique.

=back

Error: File too short to get write message $nr ($size, $need)

=over 4

Mail::Box is lazy: it tries to leave messages in the folders until they
are used, which saves time and memory usage.  When this message appears,
something is terribly wrong: some lazy message are needed for updating the
folder, but they cannot be retreived from the original file anymore.  In
this case, messages can be lost.

This message does appear regularly on Windows systems when using the
'replace' write policy.  Please help to find the cause, probably something
to do with Windows incorrectly handling multiple filehandles open in the
same file.

=back

Error: Folder $name not deleted: not writable.

=over 4

The folder must be opened with write access via L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, otherwise
removing it will be refused.  So, you may have write-access according to
the operating system, but that will not automatically mean that this
C<delete> method permits you to.  The reverse remark is valid as well.

=back

Error: Invalid timespan '$timespan' specified.

=over 4

The string does not follow the strict rules of the time span syntax which
is permitted as parameter.

=back

Warning: Message-id '$msgid' does not contain a domain.

=over 4

According to the RFCs, message-ids need to contain a unique random part,
then an C<@>, and then a domain name.  This is made to avoid the creation
of two messages with the same id.  The warning emerges when the C<@> is
missing from the string.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: Unable to create subfolder $name of $folder.

=over 4

The copy includes the subfolders, but for some reason it was not possible
to copy one of these.  Copying will proceed for all other sub-folders.

=back

Error: Unable to update folder $self.

=over 4

When a folder is to be written, both replace and inplace write policies are
tried,  If both fail, the whole update fails.  You may see other, related,
error messages to indicate the real problem.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

