=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Dir - handle folders with a file per message.

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Dir
   is a Mail::Box
   is a Mail::Reporter

 Mail::Box::Dir is extended by
   Mail::Box::MH
   Mail::Box::Maildir

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # Do not instantiate this object

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documentation describes the way directory organized mailboxes work.
At the moment, this object is extended by

=over 4

=item * L<Mail::Box::MH|Mail::Box::MH>

MH folders, which are represented by a directory containing files which
are sequentially numbered.

=item * L<Mail::Box::Maildir|Mail::Box::Maildir>

Maildir folders, which are located in a directory which has sub-directories
named C<tmp>, C<new>, and C<cur>.  Each of these directories may contain
files with names which are a combination of a numeric timestamp and some
status flags.

=item * Mail::Box::Netzwert

This folder type was especially developed for Netzwert AG, optimized to
run on a cluster of servers with folders on NFS.  The code is not publicly
available (yet).

=back

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<cmp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option           --Defined in     --Default
 access             Mail::Box        'r'
 body_delayed_type  Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Body::Delayed
 body_type          Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Body::Lines
 coerce_options     Mail::Box        []
 create             Mail::Box        <false>
 directory                           <derived from folder name>
 extract            Mail::Box        10240
 field_type         Mail::Box        undef
 fix_headers        Mail::Box        <false>
 folder             Mail::Box        $ENV{MAIL}
 folderdir          Mail::Box        undef
 head_delayed_type  Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Head::Delayed
 head_type          Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Head::Complete
 keep_dups          Mail::Box        <false>
 lock_file          Mail::Box        <folder>/.lock
 lock_timeout       Mail::Box        1 hour
 lock_type          Mail::Box        Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock
 lock_wait          Mail::Box        10 seconds
 locker             Mail::Box        undef
 log                Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 manager            Mail::Box        undef
 message_type       Mail::Box        Mail::Box::Message
 multipart_type     Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Body::Multipart
 remove_when_empty  Mail::Box        <true>
 save_on_exit       Mail::Box        <true>
 trace              Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trusted            Mail::Box        <depends on folder location>

. access => MODE

. body_delayed_type => CLASS

. body_type => CLASS|CODE

. coerce_options => ARRAY

. create => BOOLEAN

. directory => DIRECTORY

=over 4

For rare folder types, the directory name may differ from the folder
name.

=back

. extract => INTEGER | CODE | METHOD | 'LAZY'|'ALWAYS'

. field_type => CLASS

. fix_headers => BOOLEAN

. folder => FOLDERNAME

. folderdir => DIRECTORY

. head_delayed_type => CLASS

. head_type => CLASS

. keep_dups => BOOLEAN

. lock_file => FILENAME

. lock_timeout => SECONDS

. lock_type => CLASS|STRING|ARRAY

. lock_wait => SECONDS

. locker => OBJECT

. log => LEVEL

. manager => MANAGER

. message_type => CLASS

. multipart_type => CLASS

. remove_when_empty => BOOLEAN

. save_on_exit => BOOLEAN

. trace => LEVEL

. trusted => BOOLEAN

=back

=head2 The folder

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessage>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessages>(MESSAGE [, MESSAGE, ...])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<appendMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<close>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<directory>

=over 4

Returns the directory related to this folder.

example: 

 print $folder->directory;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderdir>([DIRECTORY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<organization>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<update>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<url>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

=head2 Folder flags

$obj-E<gt>B<access>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writable>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

=head2 The messages

$obj-E<gt>B<current>([NUMBER|MESSAGE|MESSAGE-ID])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(MESSAGE-ID)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findFirstLabeled>(LABEL, [BOOLEAN, [ARRAY-OF-MSGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<message>(INDEX [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>(MESSAGE-ID [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageIds>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messages>(['ALL',RANGE,'ACTIVE','DELETED',LABEL,!LABEL,FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<scanForMessages>(MESSAGE, MESSAGE-IDS, TIMESPAN, WINDOW)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

=head2 Sub-folders

$obj-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(SUBNAME, [PARENTNAME])

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(SUBNAME, [PARENTNAME])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openRelatedFolder>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openSubFolder>(SUBNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<topFolderWithMessages>

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<topFolderWithMessages>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<determineBodyType>(MESSAGE, HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderToDirectory>(FOLDERNAME, FOLDERDIR)

=over 4

(class method)  Translate a foldername into a filename, with use of the
FOLDERDIR to replace a leading C<=>.

=back

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<foundIn>([FOLDERNAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lineSeparator>([STRING|'CR'|'LF'|'CRLF'])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<locker>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessageFilenames>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

Returns a list of all filenames which are found in this folder
directory and represent a message.  The filenames are returned as
relative path.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeMessage>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeThreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeUnthreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<updateMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writeMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Other methods

$obj-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Other methods">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Dir-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Warning: Changes not written to read-only folder $self.

=over 4

You have opened the folder read-only --which is the default set
by L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">--, made modifications, and now want to close it.
Set L<close(force)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> if you want to overrule the access mode, or close
the folder with L<close(write)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> set to C<NEVER>.

=back

Error: Copying failed for one message.

=over 4

For some reason, for instance disc full, removed by external process, or
read-protection, it is impossible to copy one of the messages.  Copying will
proceed for the other messages.

=back

Error: Destination folder $name is not writable.

=over 4

The folder where the messages are copied to is not opened with write
access (see L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">).  This has no relation with write permission
to the folder which is controled by your operating system.

=back

Warning: Different messages with id $msgid

=over 4

The message id is discovered more than once within the same folder, but the
content of the message seems to be different.  This should not be possible:
each message must be unique.

=back

Error: Folder $name is opened read-only

=over 4

You can not write to this folder unless you have opened the folder to
write or append with L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, or the C<force> option is set true.

=back

Error: Folder $name not deleted: not writable.

=over 4

The folder must be opened with write access via L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, otherwise
removing it will be refused.  So, you may have write-access according to
the operating system, but that will not automatically mean that this
C<delete> method permits you to.  The reverse remark is valid as well.

=back

Warning: Folder directory $directory is write-protected.

=over 4

The folder directory does already exist and is write protected, which may
interfere with the requested write access.  Change new(access) or the
permissions on the directory.

=back

Error: Invalid timespan '$timespan' specified.

=over 4

The string does not follow the strict rules of the time span syntax which
is permitted as parameter.

=back

Warning: Message-id '$msgid' does not contain a domain.

=over 4

According to the RFCs, message-ids need to contain a unique random part,
then an C<@>, and then a domain name.  This is made to avoid the creation
of two messages with the same id.  The warning emerges when the C<@> is
missing from the string.

=back

Warning: No directory $name for folder of $class

=over 4

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: Unable to create subfolder $name of $folder.

=over 4

The copy includes the subfolders, but for some reason it was not possible
to copy one of these.  Copying will proceed for all other sub-folders.

=back

Error: Writing folder $name failed

=over 4

For some reason (you probably got more error messages about this problem)
it is impossible to write the folder, although you should because there
were changes made.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

