=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::File - handle file-based folders

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::File
   is a Mail::Box
   is a Mail::Reporter

 Mail::Box::File is extended by
   Mail::Box::Dbx
   Mail::Box::Mbox

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Mail::Box::File> is the base-class for all file-based folders: folders
which bundle multiple messages into one single file.  Usually, these
messages are separated by a special line which indicates the start of
the next one.

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<"">

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<cmp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"OVERLOADED">

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option           --Defined in     --Default
 access             Mail::Box        'r'
 body_delayed_type  Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Body::Delayed
 body_type                           <see description>
 coerce_options     Mail::Box        []
 create             Mail::Box        <false>
 extract            Mail::Box        10240
 field_type         Mail::Box        undef
 fix_headers        Mail::Box        <false>
 folder             Mail::Box        $ENV{MAIL}
 folderdir          Mail::Box        $ENV{HOME}.'/Mail'
 head_delayed_type  Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Head::Delayed
 head_type          Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Head::Complete
 keep_dups          Mail::Box        <false>
 lock_extension                      '.lock'
 lock_file          Mail::Box        <foldername><lock-extension>
 lock_timeout       Mail::Box        1 hour
 lock_type          Mail::Box        Mail::Box::Locker::DotLock
 lock_wait          Mail::Box        10 seconds
 locker             Mail::Box        undef
 log                Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 manager            Mail::Box        undef
 message_type       Mail::Box        Mail::Box::File::Message
 multipart_type     Mail::Box        Mail::Message::Body::Multipart
 remove_when_empty  Mail::Box        <true>
 save_on_exit       Mail::Box        <true>
 trace              Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trusted            Mail::Box        <depends on folder location>
 write_policy                        undef

. access => MODE

. body_delayed_type => CLASS

. body_type => CLASS|CODE

=over 4

The default C<body_type> option for C<File> folders, which will cause
messages larger than 10kB to be stored in files and smaller files
in memory, is implemented like this:

 sub determine_body_type($$)
 {   my $head = shift;
     my $size = shift || 0;
     'Mail::Message::Body::'
        . ($size > 10000 ? 'File' : 'Lines');
 }

=back

. coerce_options => ARRAY

. create => BOOLEAN

. extract => INTEGER | CODE | METHOD | 'LAZY'|'ALWAYS'

. field_type => CLASS

. fix_headers => BOOLEAN

. folder => FOLDERNAME

. folderdir => DIRECTORY

. head_delayed_type => CLASS

. head_type => CLASS

. keep_dups => BOOLEAN

. lock_extension => FILENAME|STRING

=over 4

When the dotlock locking mechanism is used, the lock is created with a
hardlink to the folder file.  For C<Mail::Box::File> type of folders, this
file is by default named as the folder-file itself followed by
C<.lock>.  For example: the C<Mail/inbox> folder file will have a hardlink
made as C<Mail/inbox.lock>.

You may specify an absolute filename, a relative (to the folder's
directory) filename, or an extension (preceded by a dot).  So valid
examples are:

 .lock        # appended to the folder's filename
 my_own_lockfile.test   # full filename, same dir
 /etc/passwd            # somewhere else

When the program runs with less priviledges (as normal user), often the
default inbox folder can not be locked with the lockfile name which is
produced by default.

=back

. lock_file => FILENAME

. lock_timeout => SECONDS

. lock_type => CLASS|STRING|ARRAY

. lock_wait => SECONDS

. locker => OBJECT

. log => LEVEL

. manager => MANAGER

. message_type => CLASS

. multipart_type => CLASS

. remove_when_empty => BOOLEAN

. save_on_exit => BOOLEAN

. trace => LEVEL

. trusted => BOOLEAN

. write_policy => 'REPLACE'|'INPLACE'|undef

=over 4

Sets the default write policy, as default for a later call to
L<write(policy)|Mail::Box::File/"Internals">.  With C<undef>, the best policy is autodetected.

=back

=back

=head2 The folder

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessage>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addMessages>(MESSAGE [, MESSAGE, ...])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<appendMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Appending messages to a file based folder which is not opened is a little
risky.  In practice, this is often done without locking the folder.  So,
another application may write to the folder at the same time... :(  Hopefully,
all goes fast enough that the chance on collition is small.

All OPTIONS of L<Mail::Box::Mbox::new()|Mail::Box::Mbox/"METHODS"> can be supplied.

 Option   --Defined in     --Default
 folder     Mail::Box        <required>
 lock_type                   NONE
 message    Mail::Box        undef
 messages   Mail::Box        undef
 share      Mail::Box        <false>

. folder => FOLDERNAME

. lock_type => ...

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box::new(lock_type)|Mail::Box/"Constructors"> for possible values.

=back

. message => MESSAGE

. messages => ARRAY-OF-MESSAGES

. share => BOOLEAN

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<close>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<filename>

=over 4

Returns the filename for this folder, which may be an absolute or relative
path to the file.

example: 

 print $folder->filename;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderdir>([DIRECTORY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<organization>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<update>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<url>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The folder">

=back

=head2 Folder flags

$obj-E<gt>B<access>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writable>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Folder flags">

=back

=head2 The messages

$obj-E<gt>B<current>([NUMBER|MESSAGE|MESSAGE-ID])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(MESSAGE-ID)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findFirstLabeled>(LABEL, [BOOLEAN, [ARRAY-OF-MSGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<message>(INDEX [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>(MESSAGE-ID [,MESSAGE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageIds>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messages>(['ALL',RANGE,'ACTIVE','DELETED',LABEL,!LABEL,FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<scanForMessages>(MESSAGE, MESSAGE-IDS, TIMESPAN, WINDOW)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"The messages">

=back

=head2 Sub-folders

$obj-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<listSubFolders>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(SUBNAME, [PARENTNAME])

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<nameOfSubFolder>(SUBNAME, [PARENTNAME])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openRelatedFolder>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openSubFolder>(SUBNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<topFolderWithMessages>

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<topFolderWithMessages>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<create>(FOLDERNAME, OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option   --Defined in--Default
 folderdir  Mail::Box   undef

. folderdir => DIRECTORY

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<determineBodyType>(MESSAGE, HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderToFilename>(FOLDERNAME, FOLDERDIR, [SUBEXT])

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<folderToFilename>(FOLDERNAME, FOLDERDIR, [SUBEXT])

=over 4

Translate a folder name into a filename, using the
FOLDERDIR value to replace a leading C<=>.  SUBEXT is only used for MBOX
folders.

=back

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<foundIn>([FOLDERNAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lineSeparator>([STRING|'CR'|'LF'|'CRLF'])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<locker>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageCreateOptions>([TYPE, CONFIG])

=over 4

Returns a key-value list of options to be used each time a new message
is read from a file.  The list is preceded by the TYPE of message which
has to be created.

This data is used by L<readMessages()|Mail::Box/"Internals"> and L<updateMessages()|Mail::Box::File/"Internals">.  With
TYPE and CONFIG, a new configuration is set.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveAwaySubFolder>(DIRECTORY, EXTENSION)

=over 4

The DIRECTORY is renamed by appending the EXTENSION, which defaults to C<".d">,
to make place for a folder file on that specific location.  C<false> is
returned if this failed.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parser>

=over 4

Create a parser for this mailbox.  The parser stays alive as long as
the folder is open.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<read>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeMessage>(MESSAGE)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeThreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toBeUnthreaded>(MESSAGES)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<updateMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

For file based folders, the file handle stays open until the folder
is closed.  Update is therefore rather simple: move to the end
of the last known message, and continue reading...

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option      --Defined in     --Default
 force         Mail::Box        <false>
 policy                         undef
 save_deleted  Mail::Box        <false>

. force => BOOLEAN

. policy => 'REPLACE'|'INPLACE'|undef

=over 4

In what way will the mail folder be updated.  If not specified during the
write, the value of the L<new(write_policy)|Mail::Box::File/"METHODS"> at folder creation is taken.

Valid values:

=over 4

=item * C<REPLACE>

First a new folder is written in the same directory as the folder which has
to be updated, and then a call to move will throw away the old immediately
replacing it by the new.

Writing in C<REPLACE> module is slightly optimized: messages which are not 
modified are copied from file to file, byte by byte.  This is much
faster than printing the data which is will be done for modified messages.

=item * C<INPLACE>

The original folder file will be opened read/write.  All message which where
not changed will be left untouched, until the first deleted or modified
message is detected.  All further messages are printed again.

=item * C<undef>

As default, or when C<undef> is explicitly specified, first C<REPLACE> mode
is tried.  Only when that fails, an C<INPLACE> update is performed.

=back

C<INPLACE> will be much faster than C<REPLACE> when applied on large
folders, however requires the C<truncate> function to be implemented on
your operating system (at least available for recent versions of Linux,
Solaris, Tru64, HPUX).  It is also dangerous: when the program is interrupted
during the update process, the folder is corrupted.  Data may be lost.

However, in some cases it is not possible to write the folder with
C<REPLACE>.  For instance, the usual incoming mail folder on UNIX is
stored in a directory where a user can not write.  Of course, the
C<root> and C<mail> users can, but if you want to use this Perl module
with permission of a normal user, you can only get it to work in C<INPLACE>
mode.  Be warned that in this case folder locking via a lockfile is not
possible as well.

=back

. save_deleted => BOOLEAN

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writeMessages>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Other methods

$obj-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<timespan2seconds>(TIME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Other methods">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::File-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Box/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head2 DETAILS

=head3 File based folders

File based folders maintain a folder (a set of messages) in one
single file.  The advantage is that your folder has only one
single name, which speeds-up access to all messages at once.

The disadvantage over directory based folder (see L<Mail::Box::Dir|Mail::Box::Dir>)
is that you have to construct some means to keep all message apart,
for instance by adding a message separator, and this will cause
problems.  Where access to all messages at once is faster in file
based folders, access to a single message is (much) slower, because
the whole folder must be read.

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Cannot append messages to folder file $filename: $!

=over 4

Appending messages to a not-opened file-organized folder may fail when the
operating system does not allow write access to the file at hand.

=back

Error: Cannot create directory $dir for folder $name.

=over 4

While creating a file-organized folder, at most one level of directories
is created above it.  Apparently, more levels of directories are needed,
or the operating system does not allow you to create the directory.

=back

Error: Cannot create folder file $name: $!

=over 4

The file-organized folder file cannot be created for the indicated reason.
In common cases, the operating system does not grant you write access to
the directory where the folder file should be stored.

=back

Error: Cannot get a lock on $type folder $self.

=over 4

A lock is required to get access to the folder.  If no locking is needed,
specify the NONE lock type.

=back

Error: Cannot move away sub-folder $dir

=over 4

=back

Warning: Cannot remove folder $name file $filename: $!

=over 4

Writing an empty folder will usually cause that folder to be removed,
which fails for the indicated reason.  L<new(remove_when_empty)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">

=back

Warning: Cannot remove folder $name file $filename: $!

=over 4

Writing an empty folder will usually cause that folder to be removed,
which fails for the indicated reason.  L<new(remove_when_empty)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">
controls whether the empty folder will removed; setting it to false
(C<0>) may be needed to avoid this message.

=back

Error: Cannot replace $filename by $tempname, to update folder $name: $!

=over 4

The replace policy wrote a new folder file to update the existing, but
was unable to give the final touch: replacing the old version of the
folder file for the indicated reason.

=back

Warning: Changes not written to read-only folder $self.

=over 4

You have opened the folder read-only --which is the default set
by L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">--, made modifications, and now want to close it.
Set L<close(force)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> if you want to overrule the access mode, or close
the folder with L<close(write)|Mail::Box/"The folder"> set to C<NEVER>.

=back

Error: Copying failed for one message.

=over 4

For some reason, for instance disc full, removed by external process, or
read-protection, it is impossible to copy one of the messages.  Copying will
proceed for the other messages.

=back

Error: Destination folder $name is not writable.

=over 4

The folder where the messages are copied to is not opened with write
access (see L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">).  This has no relation with write permission
to the folder which is controled by your operating system.

=back

Warning: Different messages with id $msgid

=over 4

The message id is discovered more than once within the same folder, but the
content of the message seems to be different.  This should not be possible:
each message must be unique.

=back

Error: File too short to get write message $nr ($size, $need)

=over 4

Mail::Box is lazy: it tries to leave messages in the folders until they
are used, which saves time and memory usage.  When this message appears,
something is terribly wrong: some lazy message are needed for updating the
folder, but they cannot be retreived from the original file anymore.  In
this case, messages can be lost.

This message does appear regularly on Windows systems when using the
'replace' write policy.  Please help to find the cause, probably something
to do with Windows incorrectly handling multiple filehandles open in the
same file.

=back

Warning: Folder $name file $filename is write-protected.

=over 4

The folder is opened writable or for appending via L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">,
but the operating system does not permit writing to the file.  The folder
will be opened read-only.

=back

Error: Folder $name not deleted: not writable.

=over 4

The folder must be opened with write access via L<new(access)|Mail::Box/"Constructors">, otherwise
removing it will be refused.  So, you may have write-access according to
the operating system, but that will not automatically mean that this
C<delete> method permits you to.  The reverse remark is valid as well.

=back

Error: Invalid timespan '$timespan' specified.

=over 4

The string does not follow the strict rules of the time span syntax which
is permitted as parameter.

=back

Warning: Message-id '$msgid' does not contain a domain.

=over 4

According to the RFCs, message-ids need to contain a unique random part,
then an C<@>, and then a domain name.  This is made to avoid the creation
of two messages with the same id.  The warning emerges when the C<@> is
missing from the string.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: Unable to create subfolder $name of $folder.

=over 4

The copy includes the subfolders, but for some reason it was not possible
to copy one of these.  Copying will proceed for all other sub-folders.

=back

Error: Unable to update folder $self.

=over 4

When a folder is to be written, both replace and inplace write policies are
tried,  If both fail, the whole update fails.  You may see other, related,
error messages to indicate the real problem.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

