=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Identity - represents an unopened folder

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Identity
   is a User::Identity::Item

 Mail::Box::Identity
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use User::Identity;
 use Mail::Box::Identity;
 my $me   = User::Identity->new(...);

 my $mailbox = Mail::Box::Identity->new(...);
 $me->add(folders => $mailbox);

 # Simpler

 use User::Identity;
 my $me   = User::Identity->new(...);
 my $addr = $me->add(folders => ...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Mail::Box::Identity> object contains the description of a
single mailbox.  The mailboxes are collected by an L<Mail::Box::Collection|Mail::Box::Collection>
object.  This corresponds with IMAP's C<\NoSelect>, for instance.

Nearly all methods can return undef.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Box::Identity-E<gt>B<new>([NAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option     --Defined in     --Default
 deleted                       <false>
 description  User::Identity::Item  undef
 folder_type                   from parent
 inferiors                     1
 location                      undef
 log          Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 manager                       <from parent>
 marked                        undef
 name         User::Identity::Item  <required>
 only_subs                     <foldertype and name dependent>
 parent       User::Identity::Item  undef
 subf_type                     <same as parent>
 trace        Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'

. deleted => BOOLEAN

=over 4

The folder is flagged for deletion.  This not have any implications yet,
because it may still get undeleted.

=back

. description => STRING

. folder_type => CLASS

. inferiors => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Can this folder have childs?  If not, this is cleared.

=back

. location => DIRECTORY|FILENAME

=over 4

The location of this folder.  Often, only the manager can figure-out
where this folder really is.

=back

. log => LEVEL

. manager => OBJECT

=over 4

Any L<Mail::Box::Manager|Mail::Box::Manager> or L<Mail::Box::Manage::User|Mail::Box::Manage::User> OBJECT.

=back

. marked => BOOLEAN|C<undef>

=over 4

Whether the folder is flagged for some reason, for instance because
new messages have arrived.

=back

. name => STRING

. only_subs => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Some folder types can have messages in their toplevel folder, other
cannot. That determines the default.
See L<Mail::Box::topFolderWithMessages()|Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

. parent => OBJECT

. subf_type => CLASS

=over 4

The type for a subfolder collection, must extend CLASS
L<Mail::Box::Collection|Mail::Box::Collection>.

=back

. trace => LEVEL

=back

=head2 Attributes

$obj-E<gt>B<deleted>({BOOLEAN])

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folderType>

=over 4

Returns the type of this folder.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fullname>([DELIMETER])

=over 4

Returns the name of the folder, from the toplevel until this one, with
the DELIMETER string between each level.  DELIMETER default to a forward
slash (a C</>).

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inferiors>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

C<Inferiors> are C<subfolders>.  When this flag is set, it is permitted
to create subfolders.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<location>([FILENAME|DIRECTORY|undef])

=over 4

Returns the directory or filename of the folder.  If this is not pre-defined,
it is computed based on the knowledge about the folder type.  Be sure to set
the location of the toplevel folder to the folderdir of the user to get
this to work.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manager>

=over 4

Returns the manager (usually a L<Mail::Box::Manage::User|Mail::Box::Manage::User> which owns
the folders.  May be undefined, by default from parent.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<marked>([BOOLEAN|undef])

=over 4

When something special has happened with the folder, this flag can
be set (or cleared).  The C<undef> status is an "unknown".  In the
IMAP4 protocol, C<0> will result in a C<\Unmarked>, a C<1> results
in a C<\Marked>, and C<undef> in nothing.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>([NEWNAME])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<onlySubfolders>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

Than this folder be opened (without trying) or not?  The default
depends on the folder type, and whether this is the toplevel folder
or not.  See L<Mail::Box::topFolderWithMessages()|Mail::Box/"Sub-folders">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<topfolder>

=over 4

Run up the tree to find the highest level folder.

=back

=head2 Collections

$obj-E<gt>B<add>(COLLECTION, ROLE)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addCollection>(OBJECT | ([TYPE], OPTIONS))

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<collection>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(COLLECTION, ROLE)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parent>([PARENT])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<removeCollection>(OBJECT|NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

Mail::Box::Identity-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<user>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

=head2 Attributes

=head2 Subfolders

$obj-E<gt>B<addSubfolder>(L<Mail::Box::Identity|Mail::Box::Identity>|DATA)

=over 4

Add a new folder into the administration.  With DATA, a new object
will be instantiated first.  The identity is returned on success.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folder>([[NAME, ...], NAME])

=over 4

Returns the subfolder's object with NAME or C<undef> if it does not
exist.  When multiple NAMEs are added, those super folders are traverst
first.  Without any NAME, the current object is returned

example: get some folder

 my $a = $user->folders->folder('b', 'a');

 my $name  = "a:b:c";
 my $delim = ":";
 my $f = $user->folders->folder(split $delim, $name);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<foreach>(CODE)

=over 4

For each of the subfolders found below this point call CODE.  This current
folder is called first.  Be warned that you may find identities with
the L<deleted()|Mail::Box::Identity/"Attributes"> flag on.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<open>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

Open the folder which is described by this identity.  Returned is some
L<Mail::Box|Mail::Box>.  The options are passed to L<Mail::Box::Manager::open()|Mail::Box::Manager/"Manage open folders">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<remove>([NAME])

=over 4

Remove the folder (plus subfolders) with the NAME.  Without NAME, this
C<Mail::Box::Identity> itself is removed.

The removed structure is returned, which is C<undef> if not
found.  This is only an administrative remove, you still need a
L<Mail::Box::Manager::delete()|Mail::Box::Manager/"Manage existing folders">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rename>(FOLDER, [NEWSUBNAME])

=over 4

Move the folder to a different super-FOLDER, under a NEW SUBfolder NAME.

example: renaming a folder

 my $top = $user->topfolder;
 my $new = $top->folder('xyz') or die;
 my $f   = $top->folder('abc', 'def')->rename($new, '123');

 print $f->name;      # 123
 print $f->fullname;  # =/xyz/123

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subfolderNames>

=over 4

Convenience method: returns the names of the collected subfolders.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subfolders>

=over 4

Returns the subfolders or C<undef> if there are none.  This
information is lazy evaluated and cached.  In LIST context, the folder
objects are returned (L<Mail::Box::Identity|Mail::Box::Identity> objects), in SCALAR context
the collection, the L<Mail::Box::Collection|Mail::Box::Collection>.

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::Identity-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Identity-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Identity-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: $object is not a collection.

=over 4

The first argument is an object, but not of a class which extends
L<User::Identity::Collection|User::Identity::Collection>.

=back

Error: Cannot load collection module for $type ($class).

=over 4

Either the specified $type does not exist, or that module named $class returns
compilation errors.  If the type as specified in the warning is not
the name of a package, you specified a nickname which was not defined.
Maybe you forgot the 'require' the package which defines the nickname.

=back

Error: Creation of a collection via $class failed.

=over 4

The $class did compile, but it was not possible to create an object
of that class using the options you specified.

=back

Error: Don't know what type of collection you want to add.

=over 4

If you add a collection, it must either by a collection object or a
list of options which can be used to create a collection object.  In
the latter case, the type of collection must be specified.

=back

Error: It is not permitted to add subfolders to $name

=over 4

The L<inferiors()|Mail::Box::Identity/"Attributes"> flag prohibits the creation of subfolders to this
folder.

=back

Warning: No collection $name

=over 4

The collection with $name does not exist and can not be created.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: The toplevel folder cannot be removed this way

=over 4

The L<Mail::Box::Identity|Mail::Box::Identity> folder administration structure requires
a top directory.  That top is registered somewhere (for instance
by a L<Mail::Box::Manage::User|Mail::Box::Manage::User>).  If you need to remove the top,
you have to look for a method of that object.

=back

Error: Toplevel directory requires explicit folder type

=over 4

=back

Error: Toplevel directory requires explicit location

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

