=head1 NAME

Mail::Box::Message - manage one message within a mail-folder

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Box::Message
   is a Mail::Message
   is a Mail::Reporter

 Mail::Box::Message is extended by
   Mail::Box::Dir::Message
   Mail::Box::File::Message
   Mail::Box::Message::Destructed
   Mail::Box::Net::Message

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # Usually these message objects are created indirectly
 use Mail::Box::Manager;
 my $manager = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
 my $folder  = $manager->open(folder => 'Mail/Drafts');
 my $msg     = $folder->message(1);
 $msg->delete;
 $msg->size;   # and much more

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These pages do only describe methods which relate to folders.  If you
access the knowledge of a message, then read L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>.

During its life, a message will pass through certain stages.  These
stages were introduced to reduce the access-time to the folder.  Changing
from stage, the message's body and head objects may change.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<clone>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Constructors">

=back

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option    --Defined in     --Default
 body        Mail::Message    undef
 body_type                    <from folder>
 deleted     Mail::Message    <false>
 field_type  Mail::Message    undef
 folder                       <required>
 head        Mail::Message    undef
 head_type   Mail::Message    Mail::Message::Head::Complete
 labels      Mail::Message    {}
 log         Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 messageId   Mail::Message    undef
 modified    Mail::Message    <false>
 size                         undef
 trace       Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trusted     Mail::Message    <false>

. body => OBJECT

. body_type => CODE|CLASS

=over 4

If the body of a message is used delay-loaded, the message must what type
of message to become when it finally gets parsed.  The folder which is
delaying the load must specify the algorithm to determine that type.

=back

. deleted => BOOLEAN

. field_type => CLASS

. folder => FOLDER

=over 4

The folder where this message appeared in.  The argument is
an instance of (a sub-class of) a L<Mail::Box|Mail::Box>.

=back

. head => OBJECT

. head_type => CLASS

. labels => ARRAY|HASH

. log => LEVEL

. messageId => STRING

. modified => BOOLEAN

. size => INTEGER

=over 4

The size of the message, which includes head and body, but without the
message separators which may be used by the folder type.

=back

. trace => LEVEL

. trusted => BOOLEAN

=back

=head2 Constructing a message

$obj-E<gt>B<bounce>([RG-OBJECT|OPTIONS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<build>([MESSAGE|PART|BODY], CONTENT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<buildFromBody>(BODY, [HEAD], HEADERS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Build/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forward>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardAttach>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardEncapsulate>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardInline>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardNo>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPostlude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardPrelude>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<forwardSubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">

=back

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<read>(FILEHANDLE|SCALAR|REF-SCALAR|ARRAY-OF-LINES, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Read/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rebuild>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reply>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replyPrelude>([STRING|FIELD|ADDRESS|ARRAY-OF-THINGS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<replySubject>(STRING)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">

=back

=head2 The message

$obj-E<gt>B<container>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<copyTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Copy the message to the indicated opened FOLDER, without deleting the
original.  The coerced message (the clone in the destination folder)
is returned.

 Option      --Default
 shallow       <false>
 shallow_body  <false>
 shallow_head  <false>
 share         <false>

. shallow => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Used for L<clone(shallow)|Mail::Message/"Constructors">.

=back

. shallow_body => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Used for L<clone(shallow_body)|Mail::Message/"Constructors">.

=back

. shallow_head => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Used for L<clone(shallow_head)|Mail::Message/"Constructors">.

=back

. share => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Try to share the physical storage of the message between the two folders.
Sometimes, they even may be of different types.  When not possible, this
options will be silently ignored.

=back

example: 

 my $draft = $mgr->open(folder => 'Draft');
 $message->copyTo($draft, share => 1);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<folder>([FOLDER])

=over 4

In with folder did we detect this message/dummy?  This is a reference
to the folder-object.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDummy>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isPart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<messageId>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<moveTo>(FOLDER, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Move the message from this folder to the FOLDER specified.  This will
create a copy using L<clone()|Mail::Message/"Constructors"> first.  Then, this original message is
flagged to get deleted.  So until the source folder is closed, two copies
of the message may stay in memory.

The newly created message clone (part of the destination folder)
is returned.  All OPTIONS are passed to L<copyTo()|Mail::Box::Message/"The message">

 Option      --Default
 shallow_body  <undef>
 share         <true unless shallow_body exists>

. shallow_body => BOOLEAN

=over 4

Only create a shallow body, which means that the header can not be
reused.  A message can therefore not be shared in storage unless
explicitly stated.

=back

. share => BOOLEAN

=over 4

When there is a chance that the original message can be undeleted, then
this must be set to false.  Otherwise a shallow clone will be made, which
will share the header which can be modified in the undeleted message.

=back

example: of moving a message

 my $t = $msg->moveTo('trash');

is equivalent to

 my $t = $msg->copyTo('trash', share => 1);
 $msg->delete;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<print>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<send>([MAILER], OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<seqnr>([INTEGER])

=over 4

Get the number of this message is the current folder.  It starts counting
from zero.  Do not change the number.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<size>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<toplevel>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<write>([FILEHANDLE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The message">

=back

=head2 The header

$obj-E<gt>B<bcc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cc>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<date>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destinations>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<from>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<get>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<guessTimestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<head>([HEAD])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<nrLines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sender>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<study>(FIELDNAME)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subject>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<timestamp>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<to>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The header">

=back

=head2 The body

$obj-E<gt>B<body>([BODY])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<contentType>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<decoded>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<encode>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isMultipart>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isNested>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parts>(['ALL'|'ACTIVE'|'DELETED'|'RECURSE'|FILTER])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"The body">

=back

=head2 Flags

$obj-E<gt>B<delete>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<deleted>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDeleted>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isModified>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<label>(LABEL|PAIRS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<labelsToStatus>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<modified>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<statusToLabels>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Flags">

=back

=head2 The whole message as text

$obj-E<gt>B<file>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<lines>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<printStructure>([FILEHANDLE|undef],[INDENT])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<string>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Text/"The whole message as text">

=back

=head2 Internals

$obj-E<gt>B<clonedFrom>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<coerce>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<diskDelete>

=over 4

Remove a message from disk.  This is not from the folder, but everything
else, like parts of the message which are stored outside from the
folder.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<isDelayed>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readBody>(PARSER, HEAD [, BODYTYPE])

=over 4

Read the body of one message.  The PARSER gives access to the folder file.
The HEAD has been read with L<readHead()|Mail::Message/"Internals">.  The optional BODYTYPE supplies
the class name of the body to be created, or a code reference to a
routine which can produce a body type based on the head (passed as
first argument).

By default, the BODYTYPE will call L<Mail::Box::determineBodyType()|Mail::Box/"Internals">
where the message will be added to.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readFromParser>(PARSER, [BODYTYPE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readHead>(PARSER [,CLASS])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<recursiveRebuildPart>(PART, OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<storeBody>(BODY)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<takeMessageId>([STRING])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Internals">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Construct/"METHODS">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

Mail::Box::Message-E<gt>B<shortSize>([VALUE])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<shortString>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<destruct>

=over 4

Removes most of the memory occupied by the message by detaching the header
and body.  Then, the object changes into a L<Mail::Box::Message::Destructed|Mail::Box::Message::Destructed>
which will catch all attempts to access the header and body.  Be careful
with the usage of this method.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Cannot coerce a $class object into a $class object

=over 4

=back

Error: Cannot include forward source as $include.

=over 4

Unknown alternative for the L<forward(include)|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.  Valid choices are
C<NO>, C<INLINE>, C<ATTACH>, and C<ENCAPSULATE>.

=back

Error: Cannot include reply source as $include.

=over 4

Unknown alternative for the C<include> option of L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">.  Valid
choices are C<NO>, C<INLINE>, and C<ATTACH>.

=back

Error: Method bounce requires To, Cc, or Bcc

=over 4

The message L<bounce()|Mail::Message::Construct::Bounce/"Constructing a message"> method forwards a received message off to someone
else without modification; you must specified it's new destination.
If you have the urge not to specify any destination, you probably
are looking for L<reply()|Mail::Message::Construct::Reply/"Constructing a message">. When you wish to modify the content, use
L<forward()|Mail::Message::Construct::Forward/"Constructing a message">.

=back

Error: Method forwardAttach requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: Method forwardEncapsulate requires a preamble

=over 4

=back

Error: No address to create forwarded to.

=over 4

If a forward message is created, a destination address must be specified.

=back

Error: No default mailer found to send message.

=over 4

The message L<send()|Mail::Message/"The message"> mechanism had not enough information to automatically
find a mail transfer agent to sent this message.  Specify a mailer
explicitly using the C<via> options.

=back

Error: No rebuild rule $name defined.

=over 4

=back

Error: Only build() Mail::Message's; they are not in a folder yet

=over 4

You may wish to construct a message to be stored in a some kind
of folder, but you need to do that in two steps.  First, create a
normal L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message>, and then add it to the folder.  During this
L<Mail::Box::addMessage()|Mail::Box/"The folder"> process, the message will get L<coerce()|Mail::Message/"Internals">-d
into the right message type, adding storage information and the like.

=back

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

Error: coercion starts with some object

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

