=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS - Convert HTML into PostScript

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS;
 my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS->new;

 my $postscript = $af->format($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Translate an HTML/XHTML message body into a postscript body
using HTML::FormatPS.

=head2 Converters between message objects

=head2 Other converters

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

OPTIONS which start with capitals are blindly passed to HTML::FormatPS.
As of this writing, that package
defines BottomMargin, FontFamily, FontScale, HorizontalMargin, Leading,
LeftMargin, PageNo, PaperHeight, PaperSize, PaperWidth, RightMargin,
TopMargin, and VerticalMargin.

 Option--Defined in     --Default
 fields  Mail::Message::Convert  <not used>
 log     Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 trace   Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'

. fields => NAMES|ARRAY-OF-NAMES|REGEXS

. log => LEVEL

. trace => LEVEL

=back

=head2 Converting

$obj-E<gt>B<format>(BODY)

=over 4

Pass an html/xhtml encoded body, and a plain text body is returned.
Characters are translated into Latin1.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>(HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatPS-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

