=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet - translate Mail::Message to Mail::Internet vv

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet;
 my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet->new;

 my Mail::Message  $msg    = Mail::Message->new;
 my Mail::Internet $intern = $convert->export($msg);

 my Mail::Internet $intern = Mail::Internet->new;
 my Mail::Message  $msg    = $convert->from($intern);

 use Mail::Box::Manager;
 my $mgr     = Mail::Box::Manager->new;
 my $folder  = $mgr->open(folder => 'Outbox');
 $folder->addMessage($intern);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The L<Mail::Internet|Mail::Internet> class of messages is very popular for all
kinds of message applications written in Perl.  However, the
format was developed when e-mail messages where still small and
attachments where rare; Mail::Message is much more flexible in
this respect.

=head2 Converters between message objects

=head2 Other converters

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Converting

$obj-E<gt>B<export>(MESSAGE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Returns a new message object based on the information from
a L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> object.  The MESSAGE specified is an
instance of a Mail::Message.

example: 

 my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet->new;
 my Mail::Message  $msg   = Mail::Message->new;
 my Mail::Internet $copy  = $convert->export($msg);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<from>(OBJECT, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Returns a new L<Mail::Message|Mail::Message> object based on the information
from a L<Mail::Internet|Mail::Internet> object. 

example: 

 my $convert = Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet->new;
 my Mail::Internet $msg  = Mail::Internet->new;
 my Mail::Message  $copy = $convert->from($msg);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>(HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Convert::MailInternet-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

