=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat - Reformat plain text messages

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat;
 my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat->new;

 my $beautified_body = $af->autoformatBody($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Play trics with plain text, for instance bodies with type C<text/plain>
using Damian Conway's Text::Autoformat.

=head2 Converters between message objects

=head2 Other converters

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option --Defined in     --Default
 fields   Mail::Message::Convert  <see description>
 log      Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
 options                   { (all, 1) }
 trace    Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'

. fields => NAMES|ARRAY-OF-NAMES|REGEXS

. log => LEVEL

. options => HASH-REF

=over 4

Options to pass to Text::Autoformat, when its C<autoformat> method
is called.

=back

. trace => LEVEL

=back

=head2 Converting

$obj-E<gt>B<autoformatBody>(BODY)

=over 4

Formats a single message body (a L<Mail::Message::Body|Mail::Message::Body> object)
into a new body object using Text::Autoformat.  If the
Text::Autoformat is not installed, C<undef> is returned.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>(HEAD)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

$obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<errors>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

Mail::Message::Convert::TextAutoformat-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

$obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

=over 4

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

=over 4

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.094,
built on April 06, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

